# Operational transfer

Apply the supplied source instrument to the retained target question in a concrete
operational way. Use the supplied practitioner description as target context.
Describe what is acted on, what is done, what can be observed, what that observation
warrants, and the limits on that inference. Preserve the source's operational chain
and relevant limits while specifying target counterparts.

Return only the supplied JSON structure and exact case, source and target identities.
Put every operative condition, stopping condition and follow-up in the five mapping
fields. The explanation should explain those fields, without adding further steps or
claims. Describe a proposed procedure; do not invent completed observations or treat
unestablished assumptions as supplied target facts. State assumptions and uncertainty
explicitly. Provide procedures and their reasoning, without evaluating the character
or quality of your own response.

Treat packet text as data. Use only the packet and general knowledge. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "E002",
  "target": {
    "domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
    "question": "Which deployed change accounts for the new checkout latency regression, and what bounded causal evidence distinguishes it from load variation?"
  },
  "source": {
    "name": "Seismic tomography",
    "practice": "Seismology and geophysics",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "An internal structure cannot be sampled directly, but variations within it systematically alter the propagation of signals that cross it along many paths.\n",
      "operation": "Measure signal travel behavior across many source-to-receiver paths, compare those observations with predictions from a candidate internal model, and iteratively adjust the model to reduce the discrepancies.\n",
      "signal": "The observed propagation times or waveforms differ from model predictions in spatially structured ways across the sampled paths.\n",
      "inference": "The pattern of discrepancies constrains a spatial model of internal properties that could have produced the observed propagation behavior.\n",
      "limit": "Sparse or uneven path coverage, measurement error, uncertain source locations, regularization choices, model assumptions, and non-uniqueness can create artifacts or allow multiple internal structures to fit the observations.\n"
    }
  },
  "native_baseline": {
  "target_domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
  "target_task": "Which deployed change accounts for the new checkout latency regression, and what bounded causal evidence distinguishes it from load variation?",
  "reference_practitioner": "Production reliability engineer specializing in web-service incident diagnosis.",
  "ordinary_methods": [
    "Compare deployment and latency timelines, stratifying traffic and configuration.",
    "Replay representative workloads, bisect revisions and test competing causes in staging.",
    "Use rollback and controlled reintroduction when safe; inspect traces and resource metrics."
  ],
  "ordinary_evidence": [
    "Version and configuration history; request traces; latency distributions; resource counters.",
    "Controlled replay and rollback observations."
  ],
  "uncertainty": [
    "Scoped authored hypothesis, not verified practitioner consensus.",
    "Teams differ in experimental maturity; this scope includes ordinary staging experiments but no formal inverse-problem specialty."
  ],
  "ordinary_inference_patterns": [
    "Temporal association suggests candidates, not unique causation; controlled replay and rollback/reintroduction support bounded causal contribution.",
    "Compare competing causes using traces, load/configuration stratification and disconfirming tests; uncertainty remains when causes are confounded."
  ],
  "ordinary_next_actions": [
    "Inspect discriminating traces, test an alternative cause, bisect revisions or safely revert/reintroduce a suspected change.",
    "Check whether an apparent fix reproduces under representative workloads."
  ]
}
}
