# Direct comparative epistemic displacement

Compare two fixed, valid mappings of the same retained target question against the
one supplied ordinary-practice baseline. Do not construct, improve, repair, or
reclassify validity of either mapping. Use only the supplied packet. Do not browse,
call tools, retrieve context, or rely on other judgments. Source identities remain
visible, but their prestige, disciplinary distance and unusual vocabulary are not
evidence of displacement.

A mapping is more ontologically displacing when adopting it changes more of the
target's epistemic control loop, or a more central part, than the other mapping:
represent → act → observe → infer → choose next inquiry.

The baseline fixes the practitioner, ordinary methods and ordinary evidence. Its
uncertainties remain uncertainties; do not silently narrow or enrich its scope.
Each mapping includes its own stated evidence context. Preserve those contexts;
do not pool them, lend observations from one to the other, or infer that an absent
measurement makes a method unusual. Compare the operational changes each mapping
would introduce to this same task and baseline. If differing contexts prevent a
defensible comparison, identify exactly what common-state distinction is missing.

Assess these five criteria separately. For each return relation A, B, tie, or
indeterminate, plus a concrete rationale comparing both mappings with the baseline:

1. action: Which mapping causes a more non-ordinary kind of investigative operation?
   Compare inspection, controlled perturbation, inverse reconstruction, elimination,
   or other actual acts. More steps or difficulty alone do not establish a change.
2. observables: Which changes more substantially what is treated as a meaningful
   signal? Distinguish more observations of an ordinary kind from a new kind of
   evidence, such as structured residual mismatch rather than additional timestamps.
3. inferential_warrant: Which changes why an observation supports a claim? Compare
   the evidence-to-conclusion relationship, such as corroboration versus differential
   perturbation response. Stronger confidence is not necessarily a different warrant.
4. problem_decomposition: Which changes operationally meaningful entities, relations,
   layers, paths, traces, hypotheses, stages or components? Relabeling an existing
   distinction is weak evidence; explain what the new distinctions enable.
5. inquiry_trajectory: From the same starting target question and ordinary practice,
   compare the next question, measurement, intervention, comparison, hypothesis to
   eliminate, or evidence source that A and B would respectively send the practitioner
   toward. Address differences in supplied applicability contexts explicitly.

For each mapping, answer the counterfactual in counterfactual_native: would the
reference practitioner probably reach substantially the same investigative behavior
without the imported ontology? Return likely, unlikely, or uncertain with rationale.
This diagnostic is not the overall comparison.

For each mapping describe scope independently:
- local_displacement: low, moderate, or high, describing the difference between its
  most changed epistemic component and ordinary practice.
- global_propagation: low, moderate, or high, describing how far that change alters
  the rest of the target inquiry.
- rationale: explain both descriptions; a high local change with low global reach
  is legitimate. Never combine these categories arithmetically.

Then return one qualitative overall_relation: A_more_displacing,
B_more_displacing, tie, or indeterminate. Do not derive it from criterion counts,
majorities, sums, weights, numerical scores, complexity, usefulness, creativity,
mapping difficulty, source exoticness, or weakness of target support.

Explain the decisive basis using:
- primary_criterion: one of the five criteria, or none if there is no decisive one.
- centrality: does the changed component affect the core question or a peripheral task?
- propagation: does it change later hypotheses, tests, stopping conditions or claims?
- irreducibility: could ordinary-practice language preserve every operationally
  important distinction? Would removing the imported structure remove the reason to
  perform the act, notice the signal, license the inference, or pursue the next inquiry?
- rationale: explain why this basis warrants the overall relation, including opposing
  criterion differences. One central warrant change can outweigh several minor changes.
These modifiers are explanations, not separately scored dimensions.

Use tie when differences do not support a defensible claim of meaningfully greater
overall displacement. Mechanisms need not be identical. Different criterion advantages
can balance in centrality and downstream reach. Do not force ordering because mappings
differ. Use indeterminate only for insufficient supplied information, naming the missing
distinction in the rationale and uncertainty. Difficulty alone is not insufficiency.

Return confidence clear or close as a qualitative description of this comparison, plus
an uncertainty list. A directional overall relation must identify a decisive criterion.
An indeterminate overall relation must explain the missing information. Return only
the JSON object required by the supplied schema, with no additional fields.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "C001",
  "target_question": "What relative and absolute chronology can be justified for the undated correspondence bundle?",
  "mapping_A": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Provenance reconstruction",
      "practice": "Archival and provenance research",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "An object's history is only partially known, but dispersed records may preserve dated traces of ownership, custody, transfer, location, or transaction.\n",
        "operation": "Gather and cross-check records that can link the object to successive people, places, and transactions, arranging supported links into a chronology and marking unsupported intervals as gaps.\n",
        "signal": "Independent records form compatible chronological links between successive states of ownership or custody, while contradictions and missing intervals expose uncertainty in the reconstructed sequence.\n",
        "inference": "The compatible links support a bounded reconstruction of the object's documented history, including which transitions are established and where provenance remains unresolved.\n",
        "limit": "Records may be lost, inaccessible, anonymous, forged, mistaken, or copied from one another; names and descriptions may be ambiguous; absence of a record does not establish absence of a transfer; and a continuous-looking chronology can still contain undocumented or misidentified transitions.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "Accession records, dated correspondence mentions, envelopes and custodian inventories are available."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "The bundle has an incomplete custody and location history.",
      "operation": "Cross-check records linking the bundle and identifiable letters to successive custodians, places and transfers; arrange supported dated links and mark gaps.",
      "signal": "Independent compatible links bound locations and possession dates, while conflicts expose uncertain intervals.",
      "inference": "Establish bounded chronology constraints for the bundle and letters without equating accession order with composition.",
      "limit": "Lost, forged, dependent or ambiguous records can create false continuity; unrecorded transfers remain possible."
    }
  },
  "mapping_B": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Dendrochronological crossdating",
      "practice": "Dendrochronology and paleoclimate",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "Multiple sequential records were formed over overlapping periods under partly shared external influences, but one or more records have uncertain calendar placement or may contain missing or anomalous increments.\n",
        "operation": "Compare the ordered pattern of increments across independently dated or overlapping records and shift their relative alignment until distinctive multi-year patterns correspond consistently across specimens.\n",
        "signal": "A particular alignment produces repeated matching temporal patterns across records and exposes otherwise inconsistent missing, extra, or misassigned increments.\n",
        "inference": "The matching alignment supports assigning specific temporal positions to previously uncertain increments and extending or checking the chronology across overlapping records.\n",
        "limit": "Local growth disturbances, weak shared environmental signal, short or repetitive patterns, measurement error, incorrect reference chronologies, and insufficient overlap can produce ambiguous or false alignments.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "Several undated letters carry long ordered weekly dispatch-count strips from the same institutional copying office. Dated office ledgers and overlapping strips supply independently authenticated reference series. The strips were attached when each letter was dispatched, as independently documented.",
      "Counts share a historically established scheduling signal. Calibration on separately dated strips and exhaustive competing-offset checks establish distinctive alignment across the supplied overlaps, including identifiable omitted weeks; no unresolved uniqueness or attachment-timing assumption is needed in this synthetic case."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "Overlapping measured count sequences associated with letter dispatch have unknown calendar offsets and missing increments.",
      "operation": "Shift the measured sequences against independently dated and overlapping series, compare distinctive multi-week high/low patterns across all witnesses, and identify missing increments; retain supported offsets and reject incompatible alignments.",
      "signal": "Repeated distinctive count-pattern matches consistently support particular offsets and expose missing or misplaced weeks.",
      "inference": "Assign bounded calendar positions to the count increments and, using the independent contemporaneous attachment link, constrain dispatch dates of the correspondence; propagate disagreements into which calendar anchors or letter links to investigate next.",
      "limit": "Weak common signal, repetitive patterns, short overlap, wrong references and missing increments can create false alignment; dispatch dates alone do not establish original composition dates."
    }
  },
  "ordinary_practice_baseline": {
  "target_domain": "archival chronology",
  "target_task": "What relative and absolute chronology can be justified for the undated correspondence bundle?",
  "reference_practitioner": "Archivist specializing in documentary provenance and historical correspondence, without dendrochronology or signal-processing specialization.",
  "ordinary_methods": [
    "Trace custody and creators; compare dated references, handwriting, postmarks, paper and event mentions.",
    "Cross-check independent dating clues and preserve uncertain intervals.",
    "Separate physical arrangement from original order."
  ],
  "ordinary_evidence": [
    "Letters, envelopes, accession records, dated calendars, material clues and independent event records."
  ],
  "uncertainty": [
    "Scoped authored hypothesis, not verified practitioner consensus.",
    "Pattern comparison is ordinary, but quantitative alignment of long measured sequences is not assumed customary."
  ]
}
}
