# Direct comparative epistemic displacement

Compare two fixed, valid mappings of the same retained target question against the
one supplied ordinary-practice baseline. Do not construct, improve, repair, or
reclassify validity of either mapping. Use only the supplied packet. Do not browse,
call tools, retrieve context, or rely on other judgments. Source identities remain
visible, but their prestige, disciplinary distance and unusual vocabulary are not
evidence of displacement.

A mapping is more ontologically displacing when adopting it changes more of the
target's epistemic control loop, or a more central part, than the other mapping:
represent → act → observe → infer → choose next inquiry.

The baseline fixes the practitioner, ordinary methods and ordinary evidence. Its
uncertainties remain uncertainties; do not silently narrow or enrich its scope.
Each mapping includes its own stated evidence context. Preserve those contexts;
do not pool them, lend observations from one to the other, or infer that an absent
measurement makes a method unusual. Compare the operational changes each mapping
would introduce to this same task and baseline. If differing contexts prevent a
defensible comparison, identify exactly what common-state distinction is missing.

Assess these five criteria separately. For each return relation A, B, tie, or
indeterminate, plus a concrete rationale comparing both mappings with the baseline:

1. action: Which mapping causes a more non-ordinary kind of investigative operation?
   Compare inspection, controlled perturbation, inverse reconstruction, elimination,
   or other actual acts. More steps or difficulty alone do not establish a change.
2. observables: Which changes more substantially what is treated as a meaningful
   signal? Distinguish more observations of an ordinary kind from a new kind of
   evidence, such as structured residual mismatch rather than additional timestamps.
3. inferential_warrant: Which changes why an observation supports a claim? Compare
   the evidence-to-conclusion relationship, such as corroboration versus differential
   perturbation response. Stronger confidence is not necessarily a different warrant.
4. problem_decomposition: Which changes operationally meaningful entities, relations,
   layers, paths, traces, hypotheses, stages or components? Relabeling an existing
   distinction is weak evidence; explain what the new distinctions enable.
5. inquiry_trajectory: From the same starting target question and ordinary practice,
   compare the next question, measurement, intervention, comparison, hypothesis to
   eliminate, or evidence source that A and B would respectively send the practitioner
   toward. Address differences in supplied applicability contexts explicitly.

For each mapping, answer the counterfactual in counterfactual_native: would the
reference practitioner probably reach substantially the same investigative behavior
without the imported ontology? Return likely, unlikely, or uncertain with rationale.
This diagnostic is not the overall comparison.

For each mapping describe scope independently:
- local_displacement: low, moderate, or high, describing the difference between its
  most changed epistemic component and ordinary practice.
- global_propagation: low, moderate, or high, describing how far that change alters
  the rest of the target inquiry.
- rationale: explain both descriptions; a high local change with low global reach
  is legitimate. Never combine these categories arithmetically.

Then return one qualitative overall_relation: A_more_displacing,
B_more_displacing, tie, or indeterminate. Do not derive it from criterion counts,
majorities, sums, weights, numerical scores, complexity, usefulness, creativity,
mapping difficulty, source exoticness, or weakness of target support.

Explain the decisive basis using:
- primary_criterion: one of the five criteria, or none if there is no decisive one.
- centrality: does the changed component affect the core question or a peripheral task?
- propagation: does it change later hypotheses, tests, stopping conditions or claims?
- irreducibility: could ordinary-practice language preserve every operationally
  important distinction? Would removing the imported structure remove the reason to
  perform the act, notice the signal, license the inference, or pursue the next inquiry?
- rationale: explain why this basis warrants the overall relation, including opposing
  criterion differences. One central warrant change can outweigh several minor changes.
These modifiers are explanations, not separately scored dimensions.

Use tie when differences do not support a defensible claim of meaningfully greater
overall displacement. Mechanisms need not be identical. Different criterion advantages
can balance in centrality and downstream reach. Do not force ordering because mappings
differ. Use indeterminate only for insufficient supplied information, naming the missing
distinction in the rationale and uncertainty. Difficulty alone is not insufficiency.

Return confidence clear or close as a qualitative description of this comparison, plus
an uncertainty list. A directional overall relation must identify a decisive criterion.
An indeterminate overall relation must explain the missing information. Return only
the JSON object required by the supplied schema, with no additional fields.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "C009",
  "target_question": "Where do approval handoffs accumulate delay, and which bounded changes could reduce it?",
  "mapping_A": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Seismic tomography",
      "practice": "Seismology and geophysics",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "An internal structure cannot be sampled directly, but variations within it systematically alter the propagation of signals that cross it along many paths.\n",
        "operation": "Measure signal travel behavior across many source-to-receiver paths, compare those observations with predictions from a candidate internal model, and iteratively adjust the model to reduce the discrepancies.\n",
        "signal": "The observed propagation times or waveforms differ from model predictions in spatially structured ways across the sampled paths.\n",
        "inference": "The pattern of discrepancies constrains a spatial model of internal properties that could have produced the observed propagation behavior.\n",
        "limit": "Sparse or uneven path coverage, measurement error, uncertain source locations, regularization choices, model assumptions, and non-uniqueness can create artifacts or allow multiple internal structures to fit the observations.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "A synthetic ticket-routing testbed uses known overlapping team routes; only endpoint timestamps are exposed. Tagged tickets have identical workload. Repeated runs and injected waits validate additive traversal times within this low-load testbed."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "Internal team waiting properties cannot be directly observed but affect traversal times across many known paths.",
      "operation": "Route timed test tickets across overlapping team paths, predict end-to-end times from candidate internal wait maps, and iteratively invert residuals to adjust those maps.",
      "signal": "Path-structured timing discrepancies constrain which hidden stages contribute delay.",
      "inference": "Localize possible internal waiting-time structure and identify candidate handoff interventions within the validated testbed regime.",
      "limit": "Coverage, variable service times, uncertain routing, regularization and non-uniqueness limit inference; testbed effects may not generalize to live queues."
    }
  },
  "mapping_B": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Dechallenge and rechallenge",
      "practice": "Clinical diagnosis",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "A suspected factor is present while an effect is occurring, and the factor can potentially be removed and, in some circumstances, reintroduced.\n",
        "operation": "Remove the suspected factor and observe whether the effect changes; where justified and safe, reintroduce the factor and observe whether the effect returns.\n",
        "signal": "The effect diminishes after removal and may recur after reintroduction in temporal association with the perturbation.\n",
        "inference": "A reproducible relationship between removing or restoring the factor and disappearance or recurrence of the effect increases support for a causal contribution by that factor.\n",
        "limit": "Effects may resolve or recur spontaneously, concurrent changes may be responsible, delayed or persistent effects can obscure the response, and reintroduction may be unsafe or impossible. Temporal response alone does not exclude alternative causes.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "A reversible duplicate-signoff policy can be withdrawn for a matched pilot queue while staffing and intake are tracked; restoration is permitted if safe."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "Duplicate signoff co-occurs with delay and can be reversibly removed.",
      "operation": "Withdraw duplicate signoff, observe stage waiting times, then restore it in the pilot if justified and compare recurrence with a matched unchanged queue.",
      "signal": "Delay diminishes on withdrawal and may recur on restoration.",
      "inference": "Increase or decrease support for duplicate signoff as a contributing delay source, bounding recommendations to the pilot.",
      "limit": "Concurrent changes, spontaneous variation, carryover and unsafe restoration can limit the inference."
    }
  },
  "ordinary_practice_baseline": {
  "target_domain": "organizational handoff delays",
  "target_task": "Where do approval handoffs accumulate delay, and which bounded changes could reduce it?",
  "reference_practitioner": "Operations improvement analyst specializing in service-team handoffs, without control-engineering training.",
  "ordinary_methods": [
    "Map actual workflow and ownership; compare timestamps and queues across case types.",
    "Interview participants and inspect exception cases.",
    "Pilot explicit handoff changes and compare turnaround, accounting for staffing and demand."
  ],
  "ordinary_evidence": [
    "Ticket histories, queue lengths, staffing schedules, service-level targets and interviews."
  ],
  "uncertainty": [
    "Scoped authored hypothesis, not verified practitioner consensus.",
    "Some analysts use process mining; dynamic system estimation from designed excitation is outside this scoped baseline."
  ]
}
}
