# Direct comparative epistemic displacement

Compare two fixed, valid mappings of the same retained target question against the
one supplied ordinary-practice baseline. Do not construct, improve, repair, or
reclassify validity of either mapping. Use only the supplied packet. Do not browse,
call tools, retrieve context, or rely on other judgments. Source identities remain
visible, but their prestige, disciplinary distance and unusual vocabulary are not
evidence of displacement.

A mapping is more ontologically displacing when adopting it changes more of the
target's epistemic control loop, or a more central part, than the other mapping:
represent → act → observe → infer → choose next inquiry.

The baseline fixes the practitioner, ordinary methods and ordinary evidence. Its
uncertainties remain uncertainties; do not silently narrow or enrich its scope.
Each mapping includes its own stated evidence context. Preserve those contexts;
do not pool them, lend observations from one to the other, or infer that an absent
measurement makes a method unusual. Compare the operational changes each mapping
would introduce to this same task and baseline. If differing contexts prevent a
defensible comparison, identify exactly what common-state distinction is missing.

Assess these five criteria separately. For each return relation A, B, tie, or
indeterminate, plus a concrete rationale comparing both mappings with the baseline:

1. action: Which mapping causes a more non-ordinary kind of investigative operation?
   Compare inspection, controlled perturbation, inverse reconstruction, elimination,
   or other actual acts. More steps or difficulty alone do not establish a change.
2. observables: Which changes more substantially what is treated as a meaningful
   signal? Distinguish more observations of an ordinary kind from a new kind of
   evidence, such as structured residual mismatch rather than additional timestamps.
3. inferential_warrant: Which changes why an observation supports a claim? Compare
   the evidence-to-conclusion relationship, such as corroboration versus differential
   perturbation response. Stronger confidence is not necessarily a different warrant.
4. problem_decomposition: Which changes operationally meaningful entities, relations,
   layers, paths, traces, hypotheses, stages or components? Relabeling an existing
   distinction is weak evidence; explain what the new distinctions enable.
5. inquiry_trajectory: From the same starting target question and ordinary practice,
   compare the next question, measurement, intervention, comparison, hypothesis to
   eliminate, or evidence source that A and B would respectively send the practitioner
   toward. Address differences in supplied applicability contexts explicitly.

For each mapping, answer the counterfactual in counterfactual_native: would the
reference practitioner probably reach substantially the same investigative behavior
without the imported ontology? Return likely, unlikely, or uncertain with rationale.
This diagnostic is not the overall comparison.

For each mapping describe scope independently:
- local_displacement: low, moderate, or high, describing the difference between its
  most changed epistemic component and ordinary practice.
- global_propagation: low, moderate, or high, describing how far that change alters
  the rest of the target inquiry.
- rationale: explain both descriptions; a high local change with low global reach
  is legitimate. Never combine these categories arithmetically.

Then return one qualitative overall_relation: A_more_displacing,
B_more_displacing, tie, or indeterminate. Do not derive it from criterion counts,
majorities, sums, weights, numerical scores, complexity, usefulness, creativity,
mapping difficulty, source exoticness, or weakness of target support.

Explain the decisive basis using:
- primary_criterion: one of the five criteria, or none if there is no decisive one.
- centrality: does the changed component affect the core question or a peripheral task?
- propagation: does it change later hypotheses, tests, stopping conditions or claims?
- irreducibility: could ordinary-practice language preserve every operationally
  important distinction? Would removing the imported structure remove the reason to
  perform the act, notice the signal, license the inference, or pursue the next inquiry?
- rationale: explain why this basis warrants the overall relation, including opposing
  criterion differences. One central warrant change can outweigh several minor changes.
These modifiers are explanations, not separately scored dimensions.

Use tie when differences do not support a defensible claim of meaningfully greater
overall displacement. Mechanisms need not be identical. Different criterion advantages
can balance in centrality and downstream reach. Do not force ordering because mappings
differ. Use indeterminate only for insufficient supplied information, naming the missing
distinction in the rationale and uncertainty. Difficulty alone is not insufficiency.

Return confidence clear or close as a qualitative description of this comparison, plus
an uncertainty list. A directional overall relation must identify a decisive criterion.
An indeterminate overall relation must explain the missing information. Return only
the JSON object required by the supplied schema, with no additional fields.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "C026",
  "target_question": "Which parts of the proposed onboarding redesign are necessary for users to complete activation, and what interactions prevent a simple feature ranking?",
  "mapping_A": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Regression bisection",
      "practice": "Software debugging and testing",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "An ordered sequence of revisions contains a transition in a reproducibly testable property, with at least one earlier state known not to have the property and one later state known to have it.\n",
        "operation": "Test an intermediate revision, use the result to discard the incompatible portion of the remaining history, and repeat the partition-and-test process until the transition is localized.\n",
        "signal": "Each tested revision is classified on one side or the other of the target property, progressively shrinking the interval that can contain the transition.\n",
        "inference": "Repeated elimination constrains the first revision associated with the observed change to the final unresolved boundary or commit.\n",
        "limit": "Flaky tests, unbuildable revisions, nonmonotonic behavior, multiple independent changes, interactions among revisions, or an incorrectly chosen good or bad endpoint can prevent unique localization or identify a boundary that is correlated with rather than solely causal of the behavior.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "An ordered synthetic prototype history has a known successful earlier revision and failing later revision under the same deterministic recorded activation replay. Every intermediate revision is executable. Independent exhaustive prior characterization establishes a single transition for this fixed replay, not a population claim.",
      "Revision manifests identify the changed interaction rules at the boundary; a boundary may contain several interacting changes. The study seeks a bounded contribution to the broader parts-and-interactions question."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "An ordered onboarding revision history brackets one reproducible activation-failure transition.",
      "operation": "Test intermediate revisions on the fixed activation replay, discard the incompatible half of the remaining history, and repeat until the transition is localized; inspect the boundary manifest without assigning independent feature effects.",
      "signal": "Success or failure at each tested revision shrinks the interval containing the activation transition.",
      "inference": "Localize the first revision associated with failure and the proposal parts changed there, selecting a bounded interaction cluster for further necessity testing rather than claiming that each changed part is independently necessary.",
      "limit": "Flakiness, unexecutable revisions, nonmonotonicity and incorrect endpoints would invalidate localization; even a unique boundary can contain interacting changes and establishes association rather than a unique cause or general user necessity."
    }
  },
  "mapping_B": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Delta debugging",
      "practice": "Software debugging and testing",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "A reproducible failure occurs for a configuration or input composed of multiple removable parts, and candidate reductions can be repeatedly tested.\n",
        "operation": "Partition the failure-inducing configuration, remove subsets or test their complements, and iteratively retain reductions that continue to reproduce the defined failure.\n",
        "signal": "Some reduced configurations preserve the failure while others do not, revealing which removals are compatible with continued reproduction.\n",
        "inference": "The procedure narrows the configuration to a test-relative minimal or near-minimal failure-inducing subset or difference whose retained parts are sufficient to reproduce the observed failure under the test.\n",
        "limit": "Interactions among parts, nondeterministic failures, unresolved test outcomes, environmental dependence, and the reduction strategy can prevent strong minimization. A retained minimal configuration demonstrates reproducibility under the test, not necessarily the unique underlying causal mechanism.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "A deterministic replay of a recorded activation path reproduces failure in a prototype assembled from removable interaction rules. A validated replay oracle tests the same completion criterion after each permitted reduction; dependency-invalid combinations return unresolved. The claim is restricted to this replay, not all users."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "A failure-inducing onboarding configuration has removable rule parts and repeatable tests.",
      "operation": "Partition the rules, remove subsets or test complements, and retain reductions that still reproduce activation failure until no permitted single reduction preserves it; retain unresolved outcomes separately.",
      "signal": "Certain reduced rule combinations still fail while others complete or cannot be tested.",
      "inference": "Find a test-relative minimal failure-inducing interaction set, showing joint sufficiency for this failure and why independent feature ranking can miss interactions.",
      "limit": "Nondeterminism, invalid reductions, environment and search order limit minimality; retained parts are not a unique cause or proof of population-wide necessity."
    }
  },
  "ordinary_practice_baseline": {
  "target_domain": "product-proposal decomposition",
  "target_task": "Which parts of the proposed onboarding redesign are necessary for users to complete activation, and what interactions prevent a simple feature ranking?",
  "reference_practitioner": "Product manager specializing in onboarding discovery and usability studies, without formal program-reduction training.",
  "ordinary_methods": [
    "Decompose proposals into user needs, flows, assumptions and dependencies.",
    "Run usability sessions with prototypes and compare activation funnels or staged variants.",
    "Use qualitative failure observations and small experiments to prioritize changes."
  ],
  "ordinary_evidence": [
    "Interview notes, prototype task completion, funnel events, feature dependencies and observed user errors."
  ],
  "uncertainty": [
    "Scoped authored hypothesis, not verified practitioner consensus.",
    "Practices vary; formal minimality searches and routing inversions are not assumed routine."
  ]
}
}
