# Direct comparative epistemic displacement

Compare two fixed, valid mappings of the same retained target question against the
one supplied ordinary-practice baseline. Do not construct, improve, repair, or
reclassify validity of either mapping. Use only the supplied packet. Do not browse,
call tools, retrieve context, or rely on other judgments. Source identities remain
visible, but their prestige, disciplinary distance and unusual vocabulary are not
evidence of displacement.

A mapping is more ontologically displacing when adopting it changes more of the
target's epistemic control loop, or a more central part, than the other mapping:
represent → act → observe → infer → choose next inquiry.

The baseline fixes the practitioner, ordinary methods and ordinary evidence. Its
uncertainties remain uncertainties; do not silently narrow or enrich its scope.
Each mapping includes its own stated evidence context. Preserve those contexts;
do not pool them, lend observations from one to the other, or infer that an absent
measurement makes a method unusual. Compare the operational changes each mapping
would introduce to this same task and baseline. If differing contexts prevent a
defensible comparison, identify exactly what common-state distinction is missing.

Assess these five criteria separately. For each return relation A, B, tie, or
indeterminate, plus a concrete rationale comparing both mappings with the baseline:

1. action: Which mapping causes a more non-ordinary kind of investigative operation?
   Compare inspection, controlled perturbation, inverse reconstruction, elimination,
   or other actual acts. More steps or difficulty alone do not establish a change.
2. observables: Which changes more substantially what is treated as a meaningful
   signal? Distinguish more observations of an ordinary kind from a new kind of
   evidence, such as structured residual mismatch rather than additional timestamps.
3. inferential_warrant: Which changes why an observation supports a claim? Compare
   the evidence-to-conclusion relationship, such as corroboration versus differential
   perturbation response. Stronger confidence is not necessarily a different warrant.
4. problem_decomposition: Which changes operationally meaningful entities, relations,
   layers, paths, traces, hypotheses, stages or components? Relabeling an existing
   distinction is weak evidence; explain what the new distinctions enable.
5. inquiry_trajectory: From the same starting target question and ordinary practice,
   compare the next question, measurement, intervention, comparison, hypothesis to
   eliminate, or evidence source that A and B would respectively send the practitioner
   toward. Address differences in supplied applicability contexts explicitly.

For each mapping, answer the counterfactual in counterfactual_native: would the
reference practitioner probably reach substantially the same investigative behavior
without the imported ontology? Return likely, unlikely, or uncertain with rationale.
This diagnostic is not the overall comparison.

For each mapping describe scope independently:
- local_displacement: low, moderate, or high, describing the difference between its
  most changed epistemic component and ordinary practice.
- global_propagation: low, moderate, or high, describing how far that change alters
  the rest of the target inquiry.
- rationale: explain both descriptions; a high local change with low global reach
  is legitimate. Never combine these categories arithmetically.

Then return one qualitative overall_relation: A_more_displacing,
B_more_displacing, tie, or indeterminate. Do not derive it from criterion counts,
majorities, sums, weights, numerical scores, complexity, usefulness, creativity,
mapping difficulty, source exoticness, or weakness of target support.

Explain the decisive basis using:
- primary_criterion: one of the five criteria, or none if there is no decisive one.
- centrality: does the changed component affect the core question or a peripheral task?
- propagation: does it change later hypotheses, tests, stopping conditions or claims?
- irreducibility: could ordinary-practice language preserve every operationally
  important distinction? Would removing the imported structure remove the reason to
  perform the act, notice the signal, license the inference, or pursue the next inquiry?
- rationale: explain why this basis warrants the overall relation, including opposing
  criterion differences. One central warrant change can outweigh several minor changes.
These modifiers are explanations, not separately scored dimensions.

Use tie when differences do not support a defensible claim of meaningfully greater
overall displacement. Mechanisms need not be identical. Different criterion advantages
can balance in centrality and downstream reach. Do not force ordering because mappings
differ. Use indeterminate only for insufficient supplied information, naming the missing
distinction in the rationale and uncertainty. Difficulty alone is not insufficiency.

Return confidence clear or close as a qualitative description of this comparison, plus
an uncertainty list. A directional overall relation must identify a decisive criterion.
An indeterminate overall relation must explain the missing information. Return only
the JSON object required by the supplied schema, with no additional fields.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "C027",
  "target_question": "What can be established about whether the procurement award was steered toward a preferred bidder?",
  "mapping_A": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Provenance reconstruction",
      "practice": "Archival and provenance research",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "An object's history is only partially known, but dispersed records may preserve dated traces of ownership, custody, transfer, location, or transaction.\n",
        "operation": "Gather and cross-check records that can link the object to successive people, places, and transactions, arranging supported links into a chronology and marking unsupported intervals as gaps.\n",
        "signal": "Independent records form compatible chronological links between successive states of ownership or custody, while contradictions and missing intervals expose uncertainty in the reconstructed sequence.\n",
        "inference": "The compatible links support a bounded reconstruction of the object's documented history, including which transitions are established and where provenance remains unresolved.\n",
        "limit": "Records may be lost, inaccessible, anonymous, forged, mistaken, or copied from one another; names and descriptions may be ambiguous; absence of a record does not establish absence of a transfer; and a continuous-looking chronology can still contain undocumented or misidentified transitions.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "Authenticated tender versions, dated transfer receipts, custodial records and independently archived messages establish whole-document identities and some transfers between the preferred bidder and procurement staff before publication. Missing intervals remain explicit."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "The custody and transmission history of whole tender documents is incomplete.",
      "operation": "Gather and cross-check dated receipts, versions and messages linking each whole document to successive custodians, locations and transfer transactions; construct supported chronological links and mark gaps.",
      "signal": "Independent records form compatible whole-document custody sequences or expose conflicting transfers and undocumented intervals.",
      "inference": "Bound which tender documents the preferred bidder and officials possessed before publication, contributing evidence of advance access to the steering inquiry without establishing motive or authorship of individual clauses.",
      "limit": "Forgery, copied records, identity errors and undocumented transfers limit the history; whole-document possession does not prove that a specific clause was supplied or adopted."
    }
  },
  "mapping_B": {
    "source": {
      "name": "Provenance reconstruction",
      "practice": "Archival and provenance research",
      "instrument": {
        "state": "An object's history is only partially known, but dispersed records may preserve dated traces of ownership, custody, transfer, location, or transaction.\n",
        "operation": "Gather and cross-check records that can link the object to successive people, places, and transactions, arranging supported links into a chronology and marking unsupported intervals as gaps.\n",
        "signal": "Independent records form compatible chronological links between successive states of ownership or custody, while contradictions and missing intervals expose uncertainty in the reconstructed sequence.\n",
        "inference": "The compatible links support a bounded reconstruction of the object's documented history, including which transitions are established and where provenance remains unresolved.\n",
        "limit": "Records may be lost, inaccessible, anonymous, forged, mistaken, or copied from one another; names and descriptions may be ambiguous; absence of a record does not establish absence of a transfer; and a continuous-looking chronology can still contain undocumented or misidentified transitions.\n"
      }
    },
    "evidence_context": [
      "Authored synthetic scenario; no claim about a real organization or person.",
      "Authenticated editor logs link individual distinctive scoring phrases to dated copying events, document versions and named custodians; independent message records corroborate selected transfers. Phrase identity is established by long distinctive sequences, not topic similarity."
    ],
    "mapping": {
      "state": "The custody history of individual scoring clauses is partly unknown even where whole-document histories are known.",
      "operation": "Treat each distinctive clause as the tracked object; reconstruct its successive custodians, dated copying transactions and locations across private bidder drafts and official scoring sheets; cross-check logs and messages and explicitly mark gaps.",
      "signal": "Independent traces yield compatible or contradictory clause-custody sequences, including documented pre-publication transfers.",
      "inference": "Reconstruct bounded clause histories that establish whether particular scoring language traveled from the preferred bidder before official adoption, contributing to the steering question without proving motive.",
      "limit": "Copied logs, ambiguous phrase identity, missing transfers, forged records and undocumented transitions limit the history; a gap is not absence."
    }
  },
  "ordinary_practice_baseline": {
  "target_domain": "investigative reporting",
  "target_task": "What can be established about whether the procurement award was steered toward a preferred bidder?",
  "reference_practitioner": "Investigative reporter specializing in municipal procurement and documentary accountability.",
  "ordinary_methods": [
    "Trace document provenance and corroborate claims across independent records and interviews.",
    "Construct a dated event sequence; compare competing explanations and seek disconfirming evidence.",
    "Distinguish allegations, corroborated facts and unresolved gaps."
  ],
  "ordinary_evidence": [
    "Tender versions, scoring sheets, emails, public registers and interview accounts.",
    "Authentication and source-independence information."
  ],
  "uncertainty": [
    "Scoped authored hypothesis, not verified practitioner consensus.",
    "Newsrooms vary in formal evidence matrices; basic corroboration and chronology are assumed ordinary."
  ]
}
}
