# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Analysis of Competing Hypotheses",
    "practice": "Intelligence analysis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Several plausible explanations can account for an uncertain situation, and available evidence may fit more than one of them.\n",
      "operation": "State the competing explanations explicitly, evaluate each item of evidence against all of them, emphasize evidence that is inconsistent with particular explanations, and test the sensitivity of the resulting comparison to uncertain evidence or assumptions.\n",
      "signal": "The evidence forms a comparative pattern of consistency and inconsistency across the competing explanations, with some items discriminating among them more strongly than others.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations with greater important inconsistency can be weakened or eliminated, leaving a smaller set of alternatives that better survives the observed evidence.\n",
      "limit": "Missing hypotheses, dependent or unreliable evidence, subjective consistency judgments, poor assessment of diagnosticity, and shared assumptions can make the comparison misleading. Surviving contradiction is not proof that the remaining explanation is true.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "investigative reporting",
    "question": "What can the current evidence establish or constrain about whether award P-17 was steered?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Award P-17 is considered under H1 (recorded scores altered after opening), H2 (bidder-specific drafting), and H3 (ordinary award). These are live alternatives at entry; the dossier has evaluation sheets, drafting records and an item index.",
    "operation": "Construct an evidence-by-hypothesis matrix, check authentication and independence, compare important inconsistencies, and repeat the comparison with disputed entries omitted.",
    "signal": "The dossier export preserves its item identifiers and the completed comparison record below. Its entries and described recording conditions are authenticated.\nThe authenticated comparison records an important inconsistency between E and H1, with E compatible with H2 and H3; this asymmetry persists when disputed entries are omitted.",
    "inference": "The comparison uniquely establishes that P-17 was steered through bidder-specific drafting and excludes every ordinary explanation.",
    "limit": "All supplied observations and stated diagnostic relations hold under the described conditions. The target scope is the named case and operating conditions; the recording assumptions are granted."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-be0749fd9275",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "The comparison uniquely establishes that P-17 was steered through bidder-specific drafting and excludes every ordinary explanation.",
    "exact_claim_span": "The comparison uniquely establishes that P-17 was steered through bidder-specific drafting and excludes every ordinary explanation."
  }
}
