# Claim-level warrant rubric

Judge only the single identified atomic claim, in its exact parent context.
Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated signal
occurs exactly as described. Does that signal license this specific claim within
the mapping's stated limits?

- SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
- CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping itself supplies a specific unresolved empirical
  relation whose establishment would license the claim. Quote that relation.
  Do not invent a missing relation or count execution readiness as warrant.
- UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the stated signal
  observed, the claim does not follow as mapped.
- UNCERTAIN: the packet establishes insufficient information to decide. Explain
  the uncertainty; do not automatically classify it as unsupported.

Do not assess other claims or whole-artifact viability. Do not repair the mapping.
No external context, browsing, tools, historical judgments, or prior sessions.
Return the specified JSON object with claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis
(exact mapping quotation), stated_empirical_relation (exact quotation for
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT, null otherwise), and uncertainty (nonempty for UNCERTAIN).

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Analysis of Competing Hypotheses",
    "practice": "Intelligence analysis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Several plausible explanations can account for an uncertain situation, and available evidence may fit more than one of them.\n",
      "operation": "State the competing explanations explicitly, evaluate each item of evidence against all of them, emphasize evidence that is inconsistent with particular explanations, and test the sensitivity of the resulting comparison to uncertain evidence or assumptions.\n",
      "signal": "The evidence forms a comparative pattern of consistency and inconsistency across the competing explanations, with some items discriminating among them more strongly than others.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations with greater important inconsistency can be weakened or eliminated, leaving a smaller set of alternatives that better survives the observed evidence.\n",
      "limit": "Missing hypotheses, dependent or unreliable evidence, subjective consistency judgments, poor assessment of diagnosticity, and shared assumptions can make the comparison misleading. Surviving contradiction is not proof that the remaining explanation is true.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "investigative reporting",
    "question": "What can be established about whether the procurement award was steered toward a preferred bidder?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "What is acted on: a single procurement award whose explanation is uncertain, together with whatever record set the reporter actually holds (tender versions, scoring sheets, emails, public-register entries, interview accounts), each with its authentication and source-independence information. The packet supplies no actual records, so everything below is a proposed procedure, not a finding.\n\nCondition for applying the instrument: more than one explanation of the award is live, and the evidence can be broken into separate items that may fit more than one explanation. Proposed hypothesis set (authored here as an assumption, to be revised by the reporter):\n- H1: deliberate steering by one or more officials, for example through tailored specifications, altered scoring, or selective release of information.\n- H2: a merit-based award under a process that ran as designed.\n- H3: procedural irregularity from error, haste or poor record-keeping, without intent to favour anyone.\n- H4: structural advantage, such as an incumbent or one of very few qualified suppliers fitting the requirement without any intervention.\n- H5: bidder-side conduct without official intent, for example a bidder obtaining inside information or bidders coordinating.\n- H6: the appearance of steering is produced by the evidence itself, for example selective, misdated or inauthentic material from an interested source such as a losing bidder.\n- H7: a residual row for an explanation not yet identified.\n\nIf only one explanation is live, or the material cannot be itemised, the instrument does not apply and ordinary corroboration and chronology are used alone.",
    "operation": "1. Write H1-H7 down before rating any evidence, so the list is not shaped by the favoured story.\n2. Itemise the evidence. Each item is one dated claim or record, logged with its provenance, authentication status (authenticated, partly authenticated, unauthenticated) and an independence group. Items that trace to the same origin, such as a forwarded email chain, interviewees repeating one another, or several documents from one leak, are collapsed into one group and counted once.\n3. Place the items on the dated event sequence, so that timing relations (for example a specification change relative to a bidder contact or a submission deadline) become items in their own right.\n4. Build a matrix of items by hypotheses. Work across each row and ask of every hypothesis: if this were true, how expected is this item? Rate it consistent, inconsistent or neutral, with a one-line reason recorded.\n5. Mark diagnosticity. Items rated consistent with every hypothesis (for example, the fact that the bidder won) are flagged as non-discriminating and set aside from the comparison.\n6. Compare hypotheses by their inconsistent items, weighted by authentication and independence, not by how many consistent items each has collected.\n7. Have a second person, a colleague or editor, rate the matrix without seeing the first ratings. Record the disagreements; do not average them away.\n8. Sensitivity test. Identify the few items that drive the result and re-run the comparison with each one removed, re-dated or reinterpreted. Repeat with each shared assumption reversed, for example that document timestamps reflect real edit times, that the scoring sheets held are the final versions, or that an interviewee has no stake.\n9. Follow-up. Seek the records that would separate the surviving hypotheses, not more material that fits all of them: tender revision history, individual evaluator scores before consensus, clarification logs, conflict-of-interest declarations, specifications from comparable earlier tenders, and responses from the agency and the bidder. Their responses are added as new rows and rated like any other item.\n10. Stopping and reopening conditions.\n- Stop collecting when the remaining obtainable records would not change which hypotheses survive, and report the surviving set as it stands.\n- Reopen the matrix if a new hypothesis appears or a driving item fails authentication.\n- Do not treat a hypothesis as weakened if the inconsistency rests only on unauthenticated or single-origin material. Record it as unresolved.",
    "signal": "The observable is the filled matrix: a comparative pattern showing which hypotheses accumulate inconsistent items, which items discriminate, and which conclusions shift under the sensitivity test. It is not any single document.\n\nIllustrations of what would discriminate if found (conditionals, not observations):\n- A specification narrowed to match one bidder's attributes, dated after a documented contact with that bidder, would be more expected under H1 or H5 than under H2. It would remain compatible with H4 if an external technical or regulatory requirement explains the change.\n- Individual scores changed after bids were opened with no recorded reason would be less expected under H2. They would not by themselves separate H1 from H3.\n- A full, contemporaneous evaluation record with consistent independent scoring would be inconsistent with the scoring-manipulation form of H1, but not with specification tailoring.\n- Material that traces to a single interested source and cannot be matched to agency-held records bears on H6.\n\nA second signal is rater disagreement and sensitivity. Rows where the two raters differ, or where removing one item changes the surviving set, mark where the comparison is fragile.",
    "inference": "Hypotheses carrying substantial inconsistency from authenticated, independent, discriminating items are weakened or set aside. What remains is a smaller surviving set, which may hold more than one hypothesis.\n\nThe answer to the target question is what the matrix supports at each level:\n- Corroborated facts: bounded statements about what the records show, for example that a criterion changed on a given date.\n- Explanations weakened: stated as such, for example that a fully merit-based account is inconsistent with specified authenticated records.\n- Explanations still standing: named together. If H1 and H3 both survive, the defensible statement is that the process was irregular and the records held do not settle whether that was deliberate.\n- Allegations and unresolved gaps: labelled separately.\n\nSteering, which implies intent and an actor, can be described as better supported than the alternatives only if the alternatives are weakened by evidence that survives the sensitivity test and the second rating. Even then the supported wording is about survival relative to the alternatives, not proof. The surviving set also determines which records and interviews are sought next.",
    "limit": "- A missing hypothesis: if the real explanation is not among H1-H6, the comparison can favour a wrong survivor. The residual row H7 only marks this risk; it does not remove it.\n- Dependent evidence: copied, forwarded or mutually informed sources can look like corroboration. Collapsing them depends on knowing their provenance, which may be incomplete.\n- Unreliable or unauthenticated items, and a selective record set: what a reporter holds is shaped by who leaked or released it and what was withheld. It is not a neutral sample.\n- Subjective ratings: consistency judgments are the raters' own, and a second rater who shares the newsroom's assumptions reduces this bias without eliminating it.\n- Misjudged diagnosticity: for example, treating narrow specifications or prior official-bidder contact as rare when they may be routine in that market or jurisdiction.\n- Shared assumptions about timestamps, document finality or normal procedure can tilt every row the same way.\n- Gaps in the records are not evidence of misconduct, and absence of an expected record is diagnostic only if it is established that the record should exist.\n- The matrix does not establish intent and yields no probability.\n- Surviving contradiction is not proof that the remaining explanation is true.\n- Transfer limit: the instrument is an internal reasoning aid from intelligence analysis. It does not set a publication, legal or fairness threshold; those remain separate editorial judgments."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-a2f06a15ca76",
    "source_field": "mapping.signal",
    "exact_parent_text": "It would remain compatible with H4 if an external technical or regulatory requirement explains the change.",
    "exact_claim_span": "It would remain compatible with H4 if an external technical or regulatory requirement explains the change."
  }
}
