# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Seismic tomography",
    "practice": "Seismology and geophysics",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "An internal structure cannot be sampled directly, but variations within it systematically alter the propagation of signals that cross it along many paths.\n",
      "operation": "Measure signal travel behavior across many source-to-receiver paths, compare those observations with predictions from a candidate internal model, and iteratively adjust the model to reduce the discrepancies.\n",
      "signal": "The observed propagation times or waveforms differ from model predictions in spatially structured ways across the sampled paths.\n",
      "inference": "The pattern of discrepancies constrains a spatial model of internal properties that could have produced the observed propagation behavior.\n",
      "limit": "Sparse or uneven path coverage, measurement error, uncertain source locations, regularization choices, model assumptions, and non-uniqueness can create artifacts or allow multiple internal structures to fit the observations.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
    "question": "Which deployed change accounts for the new checkout latency regression, and what bounded causal evidence distinguishes it from load variation?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "What is acted on: the checkout request-serving system over a window spanning before and after the regression onset. The unsampled interior is the internal distribution of added delay, i.e. which component, code segment, configuration or dependency call now takes longer. No single measurement reads off 'delay contributed by change X'; what can be measured is the latency of requests that cross the system along many different paths.\n\nTarget counterparts:\n- Ray (source-to-receiver path): a request path class, meaning the ordered set of segments a request traverses (entry endpoint, service hops, dependency calls, and how many times each is called), tagged with the build version, configuration or flag state, and host or zone that served it, plus the load conditions at that time (request rate, concurrency, queue depth, resource utilisation).\n- Travel time: per-request end-to-end latency and, where available, per-span durations.\n- Model cell: a segment-by-version/configuration unit to which a per-traversal delay is assigned.\n- Candidate anomalies: the cells touched by deployed changes.\n- Load variation: a separate term that alters delay on every path using a loaded shared resource, whether or not that path crosses a changed cell.\n\nAssumptions not supplied by the packet, to be checked before the procedure is used:\n(a) per-request records carry path identity and version/configuration identity, from traces or joinable logs;\n(b) a pre-regression window exists with comparable instrumentation;\n(c) there is more than one candidate change, and at least some requests cross differing subsets of them (for example mixed versions during rollout, flag-gated subsets, or request types that skip a changed segment).\nIf (c) fails, the observational data alone cannot separate the candidates.",
    "operation": "Proposed procedure:\n\n1. Fix the observable. Use per-request latency and span durations, not aggregated percentiles, because percentiles do not add along a path.\n\n2. Build the reference model from the pre-regression window: expected per-traversal delay for each segment as a function of the load covariates. Predicted latency for a request is the sum of baseline delays over the segments it traverses, evaluated at the load it actually experienced.\n\n3. Build and inspect the coverage matrix before inverting. Rows are path classes, columns are candidate cells, entries are traversal counts. Record which candidates are crossed by distinct path sets, which are always crossed together, and which load strata each candidate is sampled in.\n\n4. For post-regression requests, compute residual = observed latency minus reference-model prediction at the observed load.\n\n5. Iteratively adjust the model to reduce the residuals, fitting competing forms:\n   - per-cell delay increments on changed cells;\n   - a change to the load-response term only;\n   - both together.\n   State the regularisation explicitly (for example a preference for few changed cells) and repeat the fit under weaker and stronger settings.\n\n6. Resolution test (checkerboard counterpart). Add a known synthetic delay to a chosen cell, either in recorded data or in replay/staging, using the same path coverage and sampling. Run the identical inversion and record whether the delay is recovered in the right cell and at the right magnitude, or is smeared into neighbouring cells or the load term.\n\n7. Stopping conditions:\n   - Stop iterating when residuals on held-out path classes are no larger than the pre-regression residual spread, or when further adjustment no longer reduces held-out residuals.\n   - Stop without naming a single change if the leading candidates are collinear in coverage, or if the resolution test does not recover the synthetic delay.\n\n8. Follow-up where coverage cannot separate candidates: create new paths rather than refit. Options are a canary carrying a single change, a flag flip on a traffic subset, or bisected builds under replayed representative workload at matched load. Where safe, follow with rollback and controlled reintroduction of the indicated cell while load is held comparable.",
    "signal": "The observable is the structure of the residuals across path classes, not their overall size.\n\nPattern expected if a deployed change is responsible:\n- residuals concentrate on paths that cross one changed cell;\n- they scale roughly with the number of traversals of that cell;\n- they persist within matched load strata, including low load;\n- they are near zero on paths that bypass the cell under the same load and time window;\n- onset on each host or instance aligns with when that instance received the change, not with a shift in traffic level.\n\nPattern expected if load variation is responsible:\n- residuals track the load covariates across all paths sharing the loaded resource, whether or not they cross a changed cell;\n- they appear on instances still running the old version;\n- they shrink or vanish when compared within matched load strata.\n\nMixed pattern: residuals appear only on paths crossing a changed cell but grow with load. This indicates a change in load sensitivity rather than a fixed added delay.\n\nUnstructured residuals: no organisation by path or by load indicates measurement noise or a missing model component.\n\nAdditional observables:\n- the recovered location and magnitude of the synthetic delay in the resolution test;\n- how much the fitted increments move when regularisation is varied;\n- for the follow-up interventions, whether the residual disappears and returns with the change at held load.",
    "inference": "What the residual pattern warrants: a constrained model of where added delay sits, not proof of a unique cause.\n\nThe supportable statement has this form: within the covered path classes and load strata, a delay increment of an estimated size with a stated interval, located in cell X, reduces residuals to baseline spread; an alternative with no cell increment and only a load-response change does not (or does equally well, in which case no attribution is made).\n\nGrading of the conclusion:\n- A change is a supported candidate only if its cell is separately covered, the resolution test recovers a synthetic delay in that cell, and the estimate is stable across regularisation settings.\n- Distinction from load rests on three observations: the residual persists at matched load, is absent on bypassing and old-version paths at the same load, and onset aligns with the change's arrival on each instance.\n- If the mixed pattern appears, the conclusion is that the change altered load response. The regression is then attributed to the change conditional on load, not apportioned between the two.\n- If candidates are collinear in coverage, the inversion supports only 'one or more of this set'.\n\nThe inversion is observational. Causal contribution is bounded only after the follow-up intervention: removing and reintroducing the change at held load, or under representative replay, removes and restores the residual. The bound is the fraction of the regression in covered paths that the intervention accounts for, with the remainder reported as unexplained.",
    "limit": "Limits carried over from the source, with target counterparts:\n\n- Sparse or uneven path coverage. Trace sampling, tail-biased sampling and low-traffic path classes leave cells poorly constrained. Changes shipped in one deployment are crossed by the same paths and cannot be separated.\n- Measurement error. Clock skew between services, missing or coarse spans, asynchronous work not captured in spans, and retries counted as single requests.\n- Uncertain source locations. The counterpart is uncertain path and version assignment: which build or flag state actually served a request during a rolling deployment, imprecise deployment timestamps, cached configuration.\n- Regularisation choices. A preference for a single changed cell can manufacture a single culprit. Smoothing can smear a localised delay into neighbours or into the load term.\n- Model assumptions. Additivity of segment delays fails with parallel calls, queueing and contention. Load response is nonlinear near saturation. Tail latency does not decompose additively. A reference model fit at one load range may not extrapolate.\n- Non-uniqueness. Several delay distributions, or a load-response change, may fit equally well. A change deployed at the same time as a traffic shift remains confounded.\n\nLimits specific to the target, where the analogy weakens:\n\n- The system is not static during measurement. Caches, autoscaling, data growth and dependency behaviour drift, so the pre-regression reference may be stale.\n- Path selection may depend on latency itself through timeouts, retries and load balancing.\n- Staging or replay may not reproduce production data shape or concurrency.\n- Rollback is not always safe or clean, for example with schema or data migrations. A disappearing residual after rollback may coincide with a load change unless load is held or matched.\n\nScope of any conclusion: it applies to the covered paths, load strata and time window only. It should be withdrawn or narrowed if the resolution test fails, if estimates shift materially under different regularisation, or if the intervention does not reproduce the effect."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0116",
  "atomic_condition": "A pre-regression window with comparable instrumentation must exist",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "A pre-regression window with comparable instrumentation must exist, with load covariates overlapping the post-regression load range. Establish by checking data retention and comparing request rate, concurrency, queue depth and utilisation distributions across the two windows."
}
