# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Chain-of-custody verification",
    "practice": "Forensic investigation",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "An item or record passes through multiple handlers or locations, creating opportunities for substitution, alteration, contamination, or uncertainty about identity.\n",
      "operation": "Record each transfer and handling event with the responsible party, time, and purpose, then inspect that history for continuity and unexplained transitions.\n",
      "signal": "A continuous, internally consistent handling record links the examined item through its lifecycle, while gaps or contradictions identify breaks in documented custody.\n",
      "inference": "Documentary continuity supports the claim that the item examined is the item collected and that its handling history is accounted for; gaps weaken that provenance claim.\n",
      "limit": "Complete documentation does not itself prove that handlers recorded events truthfully or that no unrecorded alteration occurred, and missing records do not prove that alteration occurred. The strength of the inference depends on the reliability of the recording and safeguarding process.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "literary textual formation",
    "question": "What sequence of revision and assembly best explains the surviving novel draft, and which claims remain uncertain?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "The item under custody is the surviving draft, treated as a set of discrete units (leaves, gatherings, inserted slips, chapter bundles, recopied or typed sections) rather than as one object. Each unit has passed through two handling phases. (a) Compositional handling by the author and any copyist, typist or editor: first drafting, revision campaigns, renumbering, relocation, recopying, assembly into a sequence. (b) Post-compositional handling by heirs, dealers, collectors, archivists and conservators: sorting, foliation, binding, rehousing, removal or interfiling. Target counterparts of the source risks: substitution = a recopied or replacement leaf standing where an earlier leaf was; alteration = a later revision layer or non-authorial marking on a unit; contamination = leaves from another draft or work interfiled, or an order imposed after the author; identity uncertainty = whether the arrangement now examined is the arrangement the author left. Assumptions not supplied by the packet and to be settled before starting: how many witnesses survive, whether the draft is manuscript, typescript or mixed, whether more than one hand is present, and whether accession or provenance files exist.",
    "operation": "1. Inventory every unit in its present order and give each a neutral identifier independent of narrative order and of any existing numbering. 2. For each unit, open a handling ledger with one line per event: event type (drafting, revision, renumbering, relocation, recopying, assembly, foliation, binding, conservation, transfer of ownership); responsible party (identified hand or agent, or 'unidentified'); time (a date, or a relative bracket 'after event X, before event Y'); purpose; and the evidence for the line. 3. Tag each line by record type: 'contemporaneous record' (dated leaf, dated correspondence, accession register, sale catalogue, conservation report) or 'reconstructed from trace' (superseded page numbers, ink or pencil layer, paper stock, watermark, pinholes, stubs, offsets, text running across a leaf boundary, deletion and insertion patterns). 4. Keep the two phases in separate ledgers, working backward from the present archival state to the state at the author's last handling, then forward through the compositional events. 5. Inspect each ledger transition by transition for continuity: does every state of a unit have an accounted-for predecessor, and do party, time and purpose agree across units that share an event (for example, one renumbering campaign touching many leaves)? 6. Mark every unexplained transition as a break and draft each assembly sequence compatible with the ledger. Stopping condition: stop when every transition of every unit is classed as documented, reconstructed with stated basis, or open break, and the accessible witnesses and records have been consulted. Follow-up for each open break: collate further witnesses, request accession and conservation files, consult dated correspondence, and re-inspect the material features at that point.",
    "signal": "Continuity would be observed as: superseded numbering that resolves into a coherent earlier sequence; text that runs unbroken across leaves the ledger places as adjacent; paper stock, ink and hand consistent within one campaign and with its date bracket; correspondence or dated leaves agreeing with the relative order; archival records accounting for present foliation, binding and order. Breaks would be observed as: a unit with no predecessor state or no record of entry into the collection; numbering sequences that cannot both hold; a change of paper or ink in mid-passage with no recorded event; text continuing between leaves that are not now adjacent; foliation in a non-authorial hand that conflicts with authorial pagination; stubs or gaps in numbering indicating removed leaves; a dated letter that conflicts with a unit's placement; two ledger lines assigning incompatible times or parties to one event. Each observation is logged against the unit and transition where it occurs, with its record-type tag.",
    "inference": "Where the post-compositional ledger is continuous, this supports the claim that the arrangement examined is the arrangement the author left, so that its order can be used as evidence of authorial assembly. Where the compositional ledger is continuous for a unit, this supports the proposed sequence of drafting, revision and placement for that unit. Claims are graded by the ledger: supported by contemporaneous record; supported by reconstruction from trace; or unsupported across a break. The sequence offered as best explaining the draft is the one that leaves the fewest breaks and contradictions, and it is reported with each step's grade. A break weakens only the claims that depend on that transition; at each break the competing assembly sequences are retained rather than reduced to one. Present order and narrative order are not treated as composition order unless the ledger independently links them.",
    "limit": "A complete ledger does not show that its entries are true: an author's dates may be retrospective or mistaken, letters may misreport progress, and archival files may be silent about resorting or refoliation. Unrecorded alteration remains possible, including leaves discarded or recopied so that earlier layers left no trace. A break or a missing record does not show that interference, loss or reordering occurred. The strength of inference depends on the reliability of recording, and here it is weaker than in the source practice because most compositional lines are reconstructed afterward from traces rather than recorded at the time of handling by a responsible party; the reconstructed lines rest on interpretation of the same features they are used to order. The source treats alteration as a threat to identity, whereas authorial alteration is the object of study here, so only post-compositional or non-authorial change counts as contamination, and telling the two apart is itself uncertain. Custody continuity bears on identity and handling history, not on witnesses that never entered the record, and a local mark or reading does not establish a whole composition history. This mapping is a proposed procedure; no observations have been made, and the baseline practitioner description is an authored hypothesis rather than verified consensus."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0138",
  "atomic_condition": "Independence of trace-derived ledger lines from the sequence hypothesis. Establish by dating or attributing paper stock, watermarks, ink layers and hands from evidence external to the draft's proposed order (dated exemplars, dated correspondence, stock usage elsewhere), and by testing whether independent feature classes converge on the same relative order.",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "Independence of trace-derived ledger lines from the sequence hypothesis. Establish by dating or attributing paper stock, watermarks, ink layers and hands from evidence external to the draft's proposed order (dated exemplars, dated correspondence, stock usage elsewhere), and by testing whether independent feature classes converge on the same relative order."
}
