# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Seismic tomography",
    "practice": "Seismology and geophysics",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "An internal structure cannot be sampled directly, but variations within it systematically alter the propagation of signals that cross it along many paths.\n",
      "operation": "Measure signal travel behavior across many source-to-receiver paths, compare those observations with predictions from a candidate internal model, and iteratively adjust the model to reduce the discrepancies.\n",
      "signal": "The observed propagation times or waveforms differ from model predictions in spatially structured ways across the sampled paths.\n",
      "inference": "The pattern of discrepancies constrains a spatial model of internal properties that could have produced the observed propagation behavior.\n",
      "limit": "Sparse or uneven path coverage, measurement error, uncertain source locations, regularization choices, model assumptions, and non-uniqueness can create artifacts or allow multiple internal structures to fit the observations.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "organizational handoff delays",
    "question": "Where do approval handoffs accumulate delay, and which bounded changes could reduce it?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Act on a scoped approval workflow represented as a network of teams, queues and handoffs. Individual requests are signals traversing routes from submission to approval; ticket events are observation points. The internal quantities to estimate are expected waiting contributions at handoffs within comparable operating conditions. Assume, subject to checking, that enough requests traverse overlapping but different routes, timestamps identify comparable events, and route durations can be approximated by accumulated handoff waits plus processing time and other explicitly represented delays. The packet does not establish that these conditions or records exist.",
    "operation": "Select a case family, observation period and consistent start and end events. Reconstruct actual routes, including rework, from ticket histories; use interviews to clarify event meanings and routing uncertainties. Measure elapsed times across available entry-to-exit and intermediate-observation paths, retaining timestamp and route uncertainty. Build a candidate model predicting each path's duration from its constituent handoff contributions and separately represented processing or other delays. Account for recorded case type, demand and staffing through stratification or explicit model terms. Compare measured and predicted durations across many overlapping routes, then iteratively adjust nonnegative handoff contributions to reduce discrepancies, using an explicit penalty to discourage unsupported differences between contributions. Reserve requests for prediction checks and compare plausible route interpretations, penalties and model forms. Set fit-improvement and iteration stopping rules before fitting; convergence alone does not validate the inferred locations. If a delay concentration survives these checks, propose one bounded pilot at that handoff, such as assigning a named receiving owner for a defined case family. Specify pilot duration, a comparable control or staged comparison, the smallest useful turnaround improvement, and acceptable error, workload and downstream-queue limits before starting. Compare outcomes under comparable demand and staffing; stop early and revert if a guardrail is breached, otherwise end at the specified duration.",
    "signal": "Observe measured-minus-predicted durations grouped by route and shared handoffs, together with intermediate event intervals and queue records where available. Repeated positive discrepancies on routes sharing a handoff, relative to otherwise comparable routes bypassing it, are the target counterpart of structured travel-time discrepancies. Examine whether revisions remove this pattern on reserved requests and whether the estimated concentration remains stable across plausible modeling choices. For the pilot, observe total turnaround, the affected handoff's wait, downstream waits, errors and workload relative to the specified comparison. These are proposed observations, not reported findings.",
    "inference": "Cross-route discrepancy patterns constrain combinations of handoff waiting contributions that could explain the observed durations. Diverse overlapping routes and intermediate observations can help separate contributions; handoffs always traversed together may be identifiable only as a combined delay region. A concentration supported across prediction and sensitivity checks warrants prioritizing that region for inspection and the bounded pilot, without establishing its mechanism or a causal remedy. A pilot meeting the predefined improvement criterion without guardrail breaches supports retaining the change within the tested case family and operating conditions, to the extent that its comparison accounts for alternative explanations. An inconclusive or unsuccessful pilot warrants withholding expansion and revisiting the proposed allocation or mechanism.",
    "limit": "Sparse or uneven route coverage, missing or inconsistent timestamps, uncertain entry events and routes, unrecorded processing, case selection and changes in staffing or demand can distort inferred contributions. Penalty choices and additive assumptions may create apparent concentrations; congestion, parallel work and rework may violate the approximation. Multiple allocations can fit the same path times, and a good fit cannot establish causality. If coverage cannot distinguish adjacent handoffs, report their combined contribution and seek intermediate timestamps or additional naturally occurring routes before naming an individual bottleneck. If estimates change substantially across plausible models, or reserved-request discrepancies remain structured, withhold localization and revise the model or collect the missing observations. If comparable pilot conditions cannot be established, report the observed differences with that uncertainty and withhold causal attribution. Generalization beyond tested conditions requires further evidence."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0143",
  "atomic_condition": "whether ticket histories exist for the chosen case family and period",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "Record availability and event comparability: whether ticket histories exist for the chosen case family and period with consistent start, end and intermediate events. Establish by auditing a sample of ticket histories and using interviews to confirm event meanings and timestamp reliability."
}
