# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Luminol latent-trace detection",
    "practice": "Forensic investigation",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Material associated with a past event may persist as a latent residue that ordinary visual inspection does not reveal.\n",
      "operation": "Apply a probe whose reaction is promoted by material associated with the suspected residue.\n",
      "signal": "Responsive material produces an otherwise absent, localized observable reaction.\n",
      "inference": "The reaction supports the presence and location of material capable of producing that response.\n",
      "limit": "Unrelated substances may produce the same response, relevant residue may fail to respond because it was removed, degraded, or is below detection, and detecting responsive material does not by itself establish the event that produced it. The probe may also alter material needed for later analysis.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "archival chronology",
    "question": "What relative and absolute chronology can be justified for the undated correspondence bundle?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Acted on: the physical sheets, envelopes and wrappers of the undated bundle, treated as possible carriers of latent residues of past manufacture, writing, posting, receipt and storage events that ordinary reading-room inspection does not reveal. Candidate residues: (a) manufacture traces: watermarks, countermarks, chain- and laid-line patterns, blind-embossed stationer's stamps; (b) writing-event traces: indented impressions left when one sheet was written on while lying over another; (c) transit and receipt traces: faded or abraded postmarks, faded or erased dockets and endorsements; (d) storage-contact traces: ink offset, stains, fastener rust marks or fold shadows shared between sheets. Assumptions not supplied by the packet: the items are originals rather than copies, their period and paper type are unknown, and it is unknown whether any such residue exists or whether any item in or near the bundle carries a secure date. The found arrangement is itself part of the state and is kept distinct from original order.",
    "operation": "1) Before any probing, record the found order, foliate or reference each item without marking it, and photograph each under ordinary light as the baseline against which a response is judged 'otherwise absent'. 2) Agree an exposure and handling ceiling with a conservator, including whether any later material analysis of ink or paper is planned that the probe could compromise; if so, that sampling or analysis is sequenced first or the probe is withheld for those items. 3) Apply non-contact probes in order of increasing exposure, each chosen because the suspected residue promotes a response: transmitted light for watermark and mould structure; raking light from several directions for indentations and blind embossing; ultraviolet-induced fluorescence and, if available, infrared imaging for faded ink, erased pencil and abraded postmarks. No chemical reagents, moistening or contact methods. 4) Apply the same probe sequence to every item, and to securely dated items from the same creator or custody if any exist, as comparison material for what responds and what does not. 5) Where feasible, the person capturing and logging responses works without knowledge of the hypothesised sequence drawn from textual clues. 6) Stopping conditions: stop on an item when the agreed exposure ceiling is reached, when any condition change is seen, or when a repeat capture adds no new localized response; stop the whole procedure if the conservator withdraws approval.",
    "signal": "A response counts as a signal only if it is localized on the sheet, absent in the ordinary-light baseline, and reproduced on a second capture. Expected forms: a watermark design, initials or date figure and chain-line spacing appearing in transmitted light; indented line shapes appearing in raking light, which may or may not be legible as text; a fluorescing or absorbing pattern with the shape of a postmark, docket or erased annotation; mirror-image offset text or a stain or rust outline whose shape corresponds to a feature on another item. For each signal record item reference, position on the sheet, probe and settings, and legibility. Non-responses are recorded per item and per probe with the same care as responses. Responses on the comparison items are recorded alongside so that each signal type can be judged against material of known date.",
    "inference": "A signal warrants first only that material capable of producing that response is present at that location. Further steps are graded: (a) a watermark or stamp supports identification of a paper stock; a dated or independently datable mould supports an earliest possible date for the paper's manufacture, and shared stock among items supports grouping them, not ordering them. (b) Indentations on item A legible as the text of item B support that B was written while lying over A's sheet; this supports a relative link between the two writing events, with direction (A written after B) argued only if A's ink can be seen to run across the indentations. (c) A recovered postmark or docket legible as a date supports a posting or receipt date for the object bearing it, and becomes an absolute anchor for a letter only if that object's association with the letter is independently supported. (d) Matching offset, stain or rust outlines support past physical contact between two items, which bears on storage arrangement and possibly on recovering an earlier order, not on writing order. Each inferred constraint is entered as an interval or a pairwise relation alongside the ordinary clues (handwriting, event mentions, custody records); agreement among independent clues narrows the interval, conflict is kept as alternative chronologies. Follow-up: every latent-trace constraint is checked against at least one independent anchor or another reference document before it is used to fix a date.",
    "limit": "Same response from unrelated causes: fluorescence can come from later repair adhesives, sizing, mould, foxing, or later owners' and archivists' annotations; indentations can come from later note-taking on top of the bundle; offsets and rust marks can come from a later rearrangement or refastening; a watermark design can have been used over many years and paper stored long before use. Failure to respond: unwatermarked or trimmed sheets, indentations removed by pressing, flattening or humidification, ink or pencil faded or cleaned below detection; a non-response therefore does not show that an item is unrelated, of different date, or never posted. Response does not establish the event: paper date is not writing date, writing date is not posting date, an envelope may not belong to the letter now inside it, and contact in storage is not sequence of composition. Probe cost: light and ultraviolet exposure and handling are cumulative and may alter inks or paper needed for later analysis, hence the exposure ceiling and stopping conditions in the operation. Scope: the procedure can yield bounded intervals and some pairwise relations; if no anchor survives corroboration, only a relative or grouped chronology with stated open alternatives is justified, and no absolute dates are asserted. Feasibility depends on unverified assumptions about access to originals, equipment, and conservator approval."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0148",
  "atomic_condition": "the conservator's exposure and handling approval",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "Confirm access to original physical items and suitable imaging equipment, and obtain the conservator's exposure and handling approval before executing the stated probes."
}
