# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Chromatography",
    "practice": "Analytical chemistry",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A sample contains multiple components whose interactions with two phases differ enough that those components need not move together.\n",
      "operation": "Carry the sample through a system containing a moving phase and a stationary phase so that components repeatedly partition between them.\n",
      "signal": "Components migrate at different rates and emerge at different positions or times, producing separated bands or detector peaks.\n",
      "inference": "The separation pattern supports the presence of distinguishable components with different partition behavior and permits their relative retention to be characterized.\n",
      "limit": "Components with similar partition behavior may co-elute, operating conditions can shift retention, detector response may be nonspecific, and retention behavior alone generally does not establish chemical identity without appropriate standards or orthogonal evidence.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "investigative reporting",
    "question": "What can be established about whether the procurement award was steered toward a preferred bidder?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Target counterpart of the mixed sample: the award outcome as it first appears, a single blended result ('this bidder won') in which the separate bids and the decisions taken about each are not yet told apart. Components are the individual bidders' submissions. The two phases are (a) the stationary phase: the fixed checkpoints of the procurement, such as specification drafting, clarification questions, submission deadline, eligibility screening, technical scoring, price scoring and sign-off; and (b) the moving phase: the dated forward progression of the tender through those checkpoints. Operative conditions, all assumptions to be checked rather than supplied facts: more than one bidder took part; authenticated records (tender versions, scoring sheets, emails, public registers) exist for more than one bidder at more than one checkpoint; and bidders could in principle be handled differently at a checkpoint, so they need not move together. 'Preferred bidder' is a working hypothesis, not an established designation. If only one bidder or one checkpoint is documented, the precondition for separation is not met and the procedure should not be run as described.",
    "operation": "Carry every bidder through the same ordered checkpoints using authenticated records, and at each checkpoint record the same fields for each: date in and date out, what was asked of the bidder, which written rule or criterion was applied, who acted, and whether the bidder was passed on, held (queried, delayed, asked to resubmit), penalised or excluded. Repeat at each checkpoint so that each bidder's interaction with the process is sampled many times rather than once. Hold conditions constant: compare bidders only under the same tender version and the same scoring criteria, and log each amendment to the tender, criteria or evaluation panel as a change of operating conditions with its date. Trace provenance of each record and note where two records derive from one another. Stopping condition: stop when every bidder has been traced through every checkpoint for which an authenticated record exists; where a record is missing, mark that checkpoint as unresolved for that bidder instead of filling it by inference.",
    "signal": "A dated per-bidder profile across checkpoints, the counterpart of retention times and peaks: where each bidder was held, for how long, and under which rule. Observable separations would include one bidder receiving information earlier than others, a specification amendment dated after contact with one bidder and matching that bidder's attributes, a late or incomplete submission tolerated for one bidder and not another, or scores diverging between bidders on a criterion where their documented submissions are similar. The alternative observation is no separation: all bidders show indistinguishable profiles at every documented checkpoint. Either outcome is a possible result of the proposed procedure; none has been observed here.",
    "inference": "If profiles separate, that supports a bounded claim: the process handled bidders distinguishably, and the divergence can be located at a named checkpoint and date and described relative to the other bidders under the same stated rule (for example, 'bidder A was handled differently from B and C at eligibility screening under tender version 2'). It permits ranking checkpoints by how much they contributed to the final outcome and shows where further reporting should concentrate. It characterises relative treatment; it does not by itself name the cause. If profiles do not separate, the warranted statement is only that this breakdown by checkpoint did not resolve differential treatment in the available records.",
    "limit": "Co-elution: steering and legitimate advantage (a stronger bid, lower price, incumbency, better compliance) can produce the same profile, so a smooth passage for one bidder does not distinguish them, and an unseparated result does not establish absence of steering. Operating conditions: amendments to the tender, criteria or panel shift profiles, so comparisons across versions are not like for like. Nonspecific detector: scoring sheets and emails record outcomes and actions, not motive, and copied or derivative records are not independent readings. Gaps in records are not evidence of misconduct. Differential treatment alone does not establish steering without standards and orthogonal evidence. Follow-up: run reference standards by putting comparable tenders from the same authority, and the authority's own written rules, through the same checkpoints to learn what ordinary handling looks like; seek orthogonal evidence from independent interviews, communications bearing on intent, registers of interests and document metadata; where profiles did not separate, re-run on a different axis, such as requirement by requirement within the specification; and put the located divergence to the authority and bidders for explanation, testing each explanation against the dated record. Until such evidence exists, report the finding as documented differential treatment at a specific checkpoint, with steering as an unresolved allegation."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0166",
  "atomic_condition": "Establish comparable operating conditions by checking tender versions, applicable criteria and dated amendments before comparing bidder profiles.",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "Establish comparable operating conditions by checking tender versions, applicable criteria and dated amendments before comparing bidder profiles."
}
