# Condition taxonomy v0.1

Classify only the identified atomic condition, using the unchanged source instrument,
target and mapping. Parent excerpts supply shared qualifications and resolution context;
do not classify other clauses just because they occur in that context. Do not invent
requirements, repair the mapping, judge the whole mapping, or consult external context.
Return the exact condition_id and the structured response required by the schema.

- execution_precondition: ability to instantiate or run an otherwise coherent mapped
  procedure. Establishing it does not materially change mechanism, evidential warrant,
  inference or target. Examples: obtain records, instrument, calibrate, gain access,
  collect observations or run trials. This does not by itself change validity.
- mechanism_condition: truth determines whether state→operation→signal instantiates
  the source's distinctive operational mechanism, such as overlapping paths or genuine
  removal/restoration of the relevant factor.
- warrant_condition: required for signal to justify inference, such as identifiability,
  causal discrimination, feature specificity or an independent evidential bridge.
- target_fidelity_condition: required for the inference to address the retained target
  question. A justified bounded contribution is sufficient; complete solution is not.
- mixed: more than one inseparable functional requirement remains. Use only when
  further decomposition would materially distort the condition; explain the links.
- uncertain: available context cannot settle the category. Explain the missing context.

Categories are not a scale. Test functional role: if false merely prevents running the
procedure, it may be execution; if the source chain ceases to be instantiated, mechanism;
if the signal would not mean what is claimed, warrant; if the inference would not address
the question, target. Being testable or labeled a 'check' does not make a bridge execution.
Checking ordinary instantiation requirements can itself be part of execution. Absence
of an observed outcome alone does not invalidate a coherent prospective procedure.

For execution, populate if_execution.verification_or_satisfaction_method and set
if_validity_relevant to null. For mechanism/warrant/target, set if_execution to null
and affected_link to state_operation_signal / signal_inference / inference_target,
respectively. For mixed use the applicable non-null structures and explain inseparability;
for uncertain these may be null, and uncertainty must explain what cannot be determined.
Preserve uncertainty and disagreements rather than guessing a category.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Chromatography",
    "practice": "Analytical chemistry",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A sample contains multiple components whose interactions with two phases differ enough that those components need not move together.\n",
      "operation": "Carry the sample through a system containing a moving phase and a stationary phase so that components repeatedly partition between them.\n",
      "signal": "Components migrate at different rates and emerge at different positions or times, producing separated bands or detector peaks.\n",
      "inference": "The separation pattern supports the presence of distinguishable components with different partition behavior and permits their relative retention to be characterized.\n",
      "limit": "Components with similar partition behavior may co-elute, operating conditions can shift retention, detector response may be nonspecific, and retention behavior alone generally does not establish chemical identity without appropriate standards or orthogonal evidence.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "literary textual formation",
    "question": "What sequence of revision and assembly best explains the surviving novel draft, and which claims remain uncertain?",
    "evidence": []
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Treat the surviving draft as a potentially mixed sample of textual passages, alterations and assembled leaves. Make separately indexed records for these units, preserving their locations and relationships. The proposed components are distinguishable revision or assembly contributions; their existence and separability are hypotheses. Assume only that inspection may reveal discriminating variant readings, handwriting features, insertion relationships or paper features. Additional witnesses, dates and provenance are usable only if available and established.",
    "operation": "Use a manual comparison worksheet. Its stationary phase is a fixed panel of documented reference features drawn from the draft and any available witnesses; its moving phase is the stream of indexed records carried through successive comparisons. Define the reference features and comparison order before a run. At each comparison, provisionally retain a record's association with a reference group when an explicit feature matches, reject that association when evidence contradicts it, and carry unresolved associations onward. Reconsider retained associations against subsequent evidence, releasing those that become contradictory; allow a record to remain associated with several groups. Record matches, contradictions and missing evidence separately. Repeat the comparisons until a full pass changes no associations, or until remaining distinctions require unavailable evidence. Do not count repeated inspection of the same feature as additional support.",
    "signal": "Observe whether records develop distinct, stable patterns of association with the fixed reference groups, analogous to separated bands with different retention. Record which features retain each association, which comparisons release it, and which records remain overlapping or unresolved. A passage may contain several distinguishable alteration records. Worksheet position, comparison order and number of passes are procedural observations, not dates or measures of elapsed composition time. No particular separation result is assumed.",
    "inference": "A stable separation would support distinguishable evidence profiles and characterize their relative association with the chosen references. Identify these profiles as revision or assembly contributions only where independent evidence supports that interpretation. Use legible deletion and replacement relationships, demonstrable insertion dependencies, physical assembly evidence and securely dated witnesses, where available, to constrain earlier-than and later-than relations. Compare candidate sequences against those constraints, preferring sequences that explain the supported relations with fewer unsupported revision or assembly events. Distinguish narrative order from composition order. Report a best-supported sequence only to the extent the constraints discriminate among alternatives; otherwise report a partial order and retain competing sequences.",
    "limit": "Different contributions may share features and remain inseparable, while one contribution may vary internally and appear as several groups. Handwriting, wording and paper features can be nonspecific; reference selection, unit boundaries and comparison rules can change the apparent separation. Test dependence on those choices by repeating disputed comparisons with explicitly documented alternative boundaries or reference definitions, keeping each run's conditions fixed. Group membership alone establishes neither a date, an author nor a revision stage, and a local alteration cannot establish the whole draft's history. If a proposed sequence depends on an ambiguous grouping, seek additional witnesses, inspect relevant material features, or consult available dated correspondence and provenance. If these checks are unavailable or inconclusive, stop at the supported partial order and name the unresolved relations. This is a qualitative comparison procedure, not a validated physical separation or calibrated chronology."
  },
  "condition_id": "Q0196",
  "atomic_condition": "Whether the apparent separation survives changes in analyst choices. Establish by repeating disputed comparisons with documented alternative unit boundaries and reference definitions, holding each run's conditions fixed, and checking that the groupings persist.",
  "necessary_source_excerpt": "Whether the apparent separation survives changes in analyst choices. Establish by repeating disputed comparisons with documented alternative unit boundaries and reference definitions, holding each run's conditions fixed, and checking that the groupings persist."
}
