# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Differential diagnosis",
    "practice": "Clinical diagnosis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A set of observations can plausibly be explained by more than one underlying mechanism or condition.\n",
      "operation": "Generate multiple candidate explanations, gather or inspect evidence that bears differently on them, and repeatedly revise their relative plausibility as evidence accumulates.\n",
      "signal": "New observations create a pattern of support, contradiction, or non-discrimination across the competing explanations.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations can be reprioritized, eliminated, or retained, narrowing the plausible set without requiring an early commitment to a single cause.\n",
      "limit": "The result is constrained by which hypotheses were generated, the quality and independence of the evidence, test sensitivity and specificity, and susceptibility to anchoring, premature closure, base-rate neglect, or confirmation bias.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
    "question": "Which of the two specified mechanisms is better supported for failure pattern F-17, and what inquiry does that justify?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Failure pattern F-17 is repeated checkout latency after deployment. The specified differential contains lock contention and connection-pool exhaustion. The same focal service, replay and two mechanisms are used throughout the inquiry.",
    "operation": "List the two mechanisms, inspect the recorded response to a controlled test and compare the implications for each mechanism. Revise relative plausibility only from a discriminating observation. Preserve the response record and test definition.",
    "signal": "Under the fixed replay, the supplied test produces response code R on three repetitions. The retained definition says only that R is a completed-test code. It contains neither a latency result nor a mechanism-dependent prediction, sensitivity value or diagnostic interpretation.",
    "inference": "The recorded response proves that lock contention is certainly the sole cause of F-17, because the completed-test code exclusively identifies that mechanism.\nThe run ledger records three completed tests for F-17 and preserves their response code R together with the names of the two specified mechanisms.",
    "limit": "Completion certifies execution, not a diagnostic outcome. No supplied relation assigns R different or equal likelihoods under the two mechanisms. The retained test definition specifies neither the measured quantity nor the predictions for either mechanism."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-424eea28c053",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "The run ledger records three completed tests for F-17 and preserves their response code R together with the names of the two specified mechanisms.",
    "exact_claim_span": "The run ledger records three completed tests for F-17 and preserves their response code R together with the names of the two specified mechanisms."
  }
}
