# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Differential diagnosis",
    "practice": "Clinical diagnosis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A set of observations can plausibly be explained by more than one underlying mechanism or condition.\n",
      "operation": "Generate multiple candidate explanations, gather or inspect evidence that bears differently on them, and repeatedly revise their relative plausibility as evidence accumulates.\n",
      "signal": "New observations create a pattern of support, contradiction, or non-discrimination across the competing explanations.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations can be reprioritized, eliminated, or retained, narrowing the plausible set without requiring an early commitment to a single cause.\n",
      "limit": "The result is constrained by which hypotheses were generated, the quality and independence of the evidence, test sensitivity and specificity, and susceptibility to anchoring, premature closure, base-rate neglect, or confirmation bias.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
    "question": "Which of the two specified mechanisms is better supported for failure pattern F-17, and what inquiry does that justify?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Failure pattern F-17 is checkout latency in the focal service. The specified differential is lock contention versus connection-pool exhaustion. A test trace from segment Q of that service is supplied. The segment-to-failing-request association is absent from the supplied routing record.",
    "operation": "Compare the response of segment Q under the two specified mechanisms using the validated test predictions. Apply a controlled capacity increase under the fixed replay and record response and lock waits. Preserve the segment identifier.",
    "signal": "The capacity increase leaves Q latency unchanged while Q lock waits remain elevated. The validated predictions give a decrease for isolated pool exhaustion and no decrease for isolated lock contention. Execution and sensitivity checks pass. The trace contains no failing-request identifier linking Q to F-17.",
    "inference": "The recorded test establishes that lock contention is the sole cause of every occurrence of F-17 throughout the service, with no other contributing mechanism.\nFor segment Q, the response favors lock contention over isolated pool exhaustion and supports inspecting Q lock ownership and hold times.",
    "limit": "Test interpretation within Q is established; only Q membership in the F-17 request path is unspecified. If Q is on that path its diagnostic priority bears on the target; otherwise it concerns another segment activity. No routing fact resolves that single boundary. The observations cannot exclude co-occurrence or unlisted mechanisms."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-49ab4cd5279c",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "For segment Q, the response favors lock contention over isolated pool exhaustion and supports inspecting Q lock ownership and hold times.",
    "exact_claim_span": "For segment Q, the response favors lock contention over isolated pool exhaustion and supports inspecting Q lock ownership and hold times."
  }
}
