# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Dendrochronological crossdating",
    "practice": "Dendrochronology and paleoclimate",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Multiple sequential records were formed over overlapping periods under partly shared external influences, but one or more records have uncertain calendar placement or may contain missing or anomalous increments.\n",
      "operation": "Compare the ordered pattern of increments across independently dated or overlapping records and shift their relative alignment until distinctive multi-year patterns correspond consistently across specimens.\n",
      "signal": "A particular alignment produces repeated matching temporal patterns across records and exposes otherwise inconsistent missing, extra, or misassigned increments.\n",
      "inference": "The matching alignment supports assigning specific temporal positions to previously uncertain increments and extending or checking the chronology across overlapping records.\n",
      "limit": "Local growth disturbances, weak shared environmental signal, short or repetitive patterns, measurement error, incorrect reference chronologies, and insufficient overlap can produce ambiguous or false alignments.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "archival chronology",
    "question": "What chronological placement or offset of sequence S is supported by overlap with independently dated references?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "S is an ordered correspondence activity sequence whose chronological placement is in question. Two independently dated reference records and a copyist docket accompany S. The docket dates the physical transcription to 1912 and is independent of the pattern comparison.",
    "operation": "Tabulate the sequence and reference entries. Compare their ordered high/low patterns at candidate offsets, inspect overlap and check independent anchors. Record dated documentary facts separately from inferred pattern alignment.",
    "signal": "S positions 4 through 11 share eight consecutive annual influences with both independent references. Their distinctive high/low sequence matches reference years 1901 through 1908 at one local offset; adjacent shifts fail in both records. Independent anchors confirm the endpoints. Outside that segment no overlap has been established.",
    "inference": "The observed correspondence fixes a unique global chronology for every position of S, including all entries outside the observed overlap, without remaining alternatives.\nThe independent overlapping pattern supports placing S positions 4 through 11 at 1901 through 1908; the rest of S is not dated by this alignment.",
    "limit": "Ordered annual increments, shared influence and reference dates hold for the stated overlap. The 1912 docket dates copying, not each represented event. Unobserved portions may contain gaps or duplicated increments."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-5ff55b1232e3",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "The independent overlapping pattern supports placing S positions 4 through 11 at 1901 through 1908; the rest of S is not dated by this alignment.",
    "exact_claim_span": "; the rest of S is not dated by this alignment."
  }
}
