# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Dendrochronological crossdating",
    "practice": "Dendrochronology and paleoclimate",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Multiple sequential records were formed over overlapping periods under partly shared external influences, but one or more records have uncertain calendar placement or may contain missing or anomalous increments.\n",
      "operation": "Compare the ordered pattern of increments across independently dated or overlapping records and shift their relative alignment until distinctive multi-year patterns correspond consistently across specimens.\n",
      "signal": "A particular alignment produces repeated matching temporal patterns across records and exposes otherwise inconsistent missing, extra, or misassigned increments.\n",
      "inference": "The matching alignment supports assigning specific temporal positions to previously uncertain increments and extending or checking the chronology across overlapping records.\n",
      "limit": "Local growth disturbances, weak shared environmental signal, short or repetitive patterns, measurement error, incorrect reference chronologies, and insufficient overlap can produce ambiguous or false alignments.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "archival chronology",
    "question": "What chronological placement or offset of sequence S is supported by overlap with independently dated references?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "S is an ordered correspondence activity sequence whose chronological placement is in question. Two independently dated reference records and a copyist docket accompany S. The docket dates the physical transcription to 1912 and is independent of the pattern comparison.",
    "operation": "Tabulate the sequence and reference entries. Compare their ordered high/low patterns at candidate offsets, inspect overlap and check independent anchors. Record dated documentary facts separately from inferred pattern alignment.\nTranscribe the docket date in a catalog entry. Preserve the document identifier and transcription date in separate columns. Inventory the envelopes and record visible postmarks without attributing them to an unlinked letter. Separate dates of copying from dates mentioned inside a text. Maintain a list of undated entries. Store digital images in sequence order with stable filenames. Note missing pages in the catalog. Retain alternative catalog arrangements. Record which facts come from the docket and which from a reference. Keep a change history for the catalog. Provide the reader with a legible chronological index of the dated reference documents.",
    "signal": "The pattern table lists only separate counts of high and low entries for S and each reference; the export discarded order and position. No overlap window or shared-influence relation is recorded. The copyist docket reads 1912. The references carry dates, but no S entry is linked to one of them.",
    "inference": "The observed correspondence fixes a unique global chronology for every position of S, aligning all its entries with the dated references without remaining alternatives.\nThe independent docket places the physical transcription of S in 1912; the reference dates and separate high/low counts can be listed alongside it.",
    "limit": "The counts cannot reconstruct ordered patterns or positional overlap. The docket is an ordinary documentary date, not an alignment anchor for an identified S increment. No discriminating offset, overlap-derived exclusion or candidate shift is supplied."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-90c966fe205f",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "The independent docket places the physical transcription of S in 1912; the reference dates and separate high/low counts can be listed alongside it.",
    "exact_claim_span": "The independent docket places the physical transcription of S in 1912"
  }
}
