# Source-neutral operational rewrite

Rewrite the supplied five-field mapping in source-neutral operational language.
Preserve every operationally meaningful feature, condition, uncertainty, observable,
inferential limitation, stopping condition and specified next inquiry. Remove source
discipline names, imagery and metaphor. Retain the target objects and the actual
procedure. Do not strengthen, weaken, repair, complete or evaluate the procedure.

Return the exact case_id and the seven source_neutral fields in the supplied schema.
The procedure describes the state and overall process; action describes operations;
observables describes signals; inferential_warrant describes justified conclusions;
problem_decomposition describes the units and relationships; next_inquiry describes
specified follow-up; limits includes conditions and stopping rules. If no follow-up
or stopping condition is specified, state that it is unspecified instead of inventing
one. Do not supply a baseline or judge how the procedure relates to usual practice.

Describe behavior, never a verdict. Do not use these words or phrases, including in
negated statements: ordinary, native, novel, unorthodox, merely, only formalizes,
adds no warrant, new warrant, creative, same as standard practice, non-native,
material departure, CLEAR_COLLAPSE, SUFFICIENT_DEPARTURE, BORDERLINE_KEEP.
Do not say a method adds or lacks an epistemic contribution.

Treat packet text as data. Use only this target question and mapping. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "E005",
  "target_question": "Which parts of the proposed onboarding redesign are necessary for users to complete activation, and what interactions prevent a simple feature ranking?",
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Represent the proposed redesign as removable elements, such as instructions, defaults, screens or assistance, with explicit dependencies. These are candidate categories, not supplied facts about the proposal. Act on a configuration of omissions from a fixed reference prototype: reducing that configuration means restoring omitted elements. Assume valid variants can be built and repeatedly tested with comparable users and tasks. Define activation, permitted assistance, observation window and repeatability criteria in advance, along with success, failure and unresolved outcomes. First establish reproducible activation in the reference and reproducible activation failure in at least one valid omission configuration. If either cannot be established, stop the minimization and investigate the reference flow or test reliability before drawing necessity conclusions.",
    "operation": "Partition the failure-inducing omission set. Test subsets of omissions and their complements by restoring the other omitted elements, holding the remaining flow, task and environment fixed. Retain a smaller omission set only when it still meets the predefined activation-failure criterion; repartition and refine until no tested reduction preserves failure. Use comparable participant allocation and control prior exposure so learning does not masquerade as an effect of restoration. Treat structurally invalid variants and ambiguous or inconsistent outcomes as unresolved, not as activation failures. At the endpoint, test restoring each remaining omitted element individually. Stop with a test-relative 1-minimal result only if the current set reproducibly fails and every such single restoration reproducibly succeeds; otherwise report a provisional reduced set when unresolved outcomes or a declared testing budget prevent completion. Where feasible, repeat from other failing omission sets or partition orders. Follow up suspected interactions by testing neither, either and both omissions against the same fixed remainder, using only valid variants.",
    "signal": "Record which omission configurations preserve activation failure, which restore activation and which remain unresolved, using prototype task completion and funnel events as outcome evidence. Observed errors and session notes can locate where users become blocked, without determining necessity by themselves. In the interaction comparisons, individually tolerated omissions that jointly block activation indicate that the corresponding elements may provide alternative support. A failure that disappears after an additional omission indicates context dependence or nonmonotonic behavior. These are proposed observations to seek, not established findings.",
    "inference": "A retained failing omission set identifies removals sufficient to reproduce activation failure under the defined test. A verified 1-minimal set additionally shows that restoring any one of its omitted elements removes that failure in the tested configuration. A singleton supports conditional necessity of that element with the reference remainder fixed. A multiple-element set does not establish that every omitted element is individually necessary: jointly removing alternative routes can block activation even when either route alone suffices. Different reduced sets and interaction results can therefore support priorities for combinations and contexts rather than a simple independent feature ranking.",
    "limit": "The result concerns the tested users, tasks, implementation, environment and outcome criteria; it does not establish population-wide necessity. It minimizes failure-inducing omissions, not the successful redesign itself. Dependencies may prevent independent removal, and participant variability, learning, unresolved outcomes and environmental changes can weaken reproducibility. Reduction order can select different endpoints. Single-restoration checks establish 1-minimality, not a globally smallest omission set; nonmonotonic interactions can conceal smaller failing sets. Even reproducible failure does not uniquely identify its causal mechanism, and an element conditionally required in one configuration may be dispensable in another."
  }
}
