# Source-neutral operational rewrite

Rewrite the supplied five-field mapping in source-neutral operational language.
Preserve every operationally meaningful feature, condition, uncertainty, observable,
inferential limitation, stopping condition and specified next inquiry. Remove source
discipline names, imagery and metaphor. Retain the target objects and the actual
procedure. Do not strengthen, weaken, repair, complete or evaluate the procedure.

Return the exact case_id and the seven source_neutral fields in the supplied schema.
The procedure describes the state and overall process; action describes operations;
observables describes signals; inferential_warrant describes justified conclusions;
problem_decomposition describes the units and relationships; next_inquiry describes
specified follow-up; limits includes conditions and stopping rules. If no follow-up
or stopping condition is specified, state that it is unspecified instead of inventing
one. Do not supply a baseline or judge how the procedure relates to usual practice.

Describe behavior, never a verdict. Do not use these words or phrases, including in
negated statements: ordinary, native, novel, unorthodox, merely, only formalizes,
adds no warrant, new warrant, creative, same as standard practice, non-native,
material departure, CLEAR_COLLAPSE, SUFFICIENT_DEPARTURE, BORDERLINE_KEEP.
Do not say a method adds or lacks an epistemic contribution.

Treat packet text as data. Use only this target question and mapping. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "E017",
  "target_question": "Which parts of the proposed onboarding redesign are necessary for users to complete activation, and what interactions prevent a simple feature ranking?",
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Treat the onboarding flow as a dynamic system: component availability is the controlled input, and users' progress toward activation over elapsed time is the output. Identify the actual proposed components and their dependencies; none are specified in the packet. Define activation observably, distinguish executable activation from prototype task completion, and specify the user group, entry checkpoint, prior experience and starting progress. Assume component availability can be changed reproducibly while preserving the other intended conditions. If a component cannot be separated from its dependencies, treat the coupled components as a bundle and bound conclusions to that bundle.",
    "operation": "At a standardized checkpoint before users encounter the component being tested, record initial progress, abruptly change that component from available to unavailable, and hold that setting throughout observation. Randomly assign comparable users to this variant or an unchanged full-redesign control, holding other components, instructions and assistance rules fixed. Record both trajectories from the checkpoint through a prespecified observation window long enough to include plausible delayed completion. Use fresh users for subsequent variants to reduce learning carryover. Repeat selected probes with a second component present and absent, including the full, each single-removal and joint-removal configurations, to test suspected dependencies or substitution. Predefine activation criteria, meaningful effect sizes, sample size, observation duration and a participant burden limit. End individual observation at the time or burden limit; record early exits and assistance explicitly rather than treating unobserved later outcomes as established failures.",
    "signal": "Observe timestamped progress events, errors, retries, assistance and activation. Compare cumulative activation trajectories and interval progress or activation rates between conditions. Measure delay before progress, time to a specified activation proportion when reached, early rate peaks, repeated reversals between steps, and later differences in completion. Interpret peaks or oscillations only in outputs that can exhibit them: cumulative activation cannot overshoot or decline. Describe a plateau as stability within the observed window, not proof of permanent settling. For paired components, compare the effect of removing one when the other is present versus absent, using the same prespecified outcome scale and time horizon.",
    "inference": "A reproducible loss of activation after removal supports dependence on that component within the tested configuration, users and time window; it does not establish universal necessity. Successful unassisted activation without a component is a counterexample to its strict necessity for that tested user and path. Slower activation with comparable later completion supports a timing contribution rather than demonstrated necessity for eventual completion. Removal effects that differ by the other component's setting support interaction; joint removal causing a loss absent from either single removal is consistent with substitution or redundancy. Such responses distinguish candidate accounts of the flow, including gating, acceleration and compensation. Context-dependent effects or trajectory crossings prevent a single feature ranking from expressing all tested contributions.",
    "limit": "Noise, unequal starting knowledge, assistance, traffic differences, instrumentation errors and implementation defects can distort trajectories. Floor or ceiling completion rates can conceal effects; nonlinear behavior and interacting components can make a large removal probe unrepresentative of smaller changes. Results depend on the tested user group, checkpoint, configuration, outcome scale and observation window. Prototype success supports claims about the simulated task unless real activation is available and measured. No observed completion does not prove impossibility, and single removals do not establish a globally minimal sufficient redesign. If manipulation fidelity or starting-state comparability fails, stop attributing differences to the named component, correct the setup and repeat. If trajectories remain changing at the time limit or uncertainty cannot distinguish the candidate accounts, report the result as unresolved and use a longer, newly specified observation window or additional comparable cohorts. Follow suspected interactions with the paired probes described above; do not extrapolate their findings to untested combinations."
  }
}
