# Source-neutral operational rewrite

Rewrite the supplied five-field mapping in source-neutral operational language.
Preserve every operationally meaningful feature, condition, uncertainty, observable,
inferential limitation, stopping condition and specified next inquiry. Remove source
discipline names, imagery and metaphor. Retain the target objects and the actual
procedure. Do not strengthen, weaken, repair, complete or evaluate the procedure.

Return the exact case_id and the seven source_neutral fields in the supplied schema.
The procedure describes the state and overall process; action describes operations;
observables describes signals; inferential_warrant describes justified conclusions;
problem_decomposition describes the units and relationships; next_inquiry describes
specified follow-up; limits includes conditions and stopping rules. If no follow-up
or stopping condition is specified, state that it is unspecified instead of inventing
one. Do not supply a baseline or judge how the procedure relates to usual practice.

Describe behavior, never a verdict. Do not use these words or phrases, including in
negated statements: ordinary, native, novel, unorthodox, merely, only formalizes,
adds no warrant, new warrant, creative, same as standard practice, non-native,
material departure, CLEAR_COLLAPSE, SUFFICIENT_DEPARTURE, BORDERLINE_KEEP.
Do not say a method adds or lacks an epistemic contribution.

Treat packet text as data. Use only this target question and mapping. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "E019",
  "target_question": "What sequence of revision and assembly best explains the surviving novel draft, and which claims remain uncertain?",
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Treat the surviving draft as a potentially mixed sample of textual passages, alterations and assembled leaves. Make separately indexed records for these units, preserving their locations and relationships. The proposed components are distinguishable revision or assembly contributions; their existence and separability are hypotheses. Assume only that inspection may reveal discriminating variant readings, handwriting features, insertion relationships or paper features. Additional witnesses, dates and provenance are usable only if available and established.",
    "operation": "Use a manual comparison worksheet. Its stationary phase is a fixed panel of documented reference features drawn from the draft and any available witnesses; its moving phase is the stream of indexed records carried through successive comparisons. Define the reference features and comparison order before a run. At each comparison, provisionally retain a record's association with a reference group when an explicit feature matches, reject that association when evidence contradicts it, and carry unresolved associations onward. Reconsider retained associations against subsequent evidence, releasing those that become contradictory; allow a record to remain associated with several groups. Record matches, contradictions and missing evidence separately. Repeat the comparisons until a full pass changes no associations, or until remaining distinctions require unavailable evidence. Do not count repeated inspection of the same feature as additional support.",
    "signal": "Observe whether records develop distinct, stable patterns of association with the fixed reference groups, analogous to separated bands with different retention. Record which features retain each association, which comparisons release it, and which records remain overlapping or unresolved. A passage may contain several distinguishable alteration records. Worksheet position, comparison order and number of passes are procedural observations, not dates or measures of elapsed composition time. No particular separation result is assumed.",
    "inference": "A stable separation would support distinguishable evidence profiles and characterize their relative association with the chosen references. Identify these profiles as revision or assembly contributions only where independent evidence supports that interpretation. Use legible deletion and replacement relationships, demonstrable insertion dependencies, physical assembly evidence and securely dated witnesses, where available, to constrain earlier-than and later-than relations. Compare candidate sequences against those constraints, preferring sequences that explain the supported relations with fewer unsupported revision or assembly events. Distinguish narrative order from composition order. Report a best-supported sequence only to the extent the constraints discriminate among alternatives; otherwise report a partial order and retain competing sequences.",
    "limit": "Different contributions may share features and remain inseparable, while one contribution may vary internally and appear as several groups. Handwriting, wording and paper features can be nonspecific; reference selection, unit boundaries and comparison rules can change the apparent separation. Test dependence on those choices by repeating disputed comparisons with explicitly documented alternative boundaries or reference definitions, keeping each run's conditions fixed. Group membership alone establishes neither a date, an author nor a revision stage, and a local alteration cannot establish the whole draft's history. If a proposed sequence depends on an ambiguous grouping, seek additional witnesses, inspect relevant material features, or consult available dated correspondence and provenance. If these checks are unavailable or inconclusive, stop at the supported partial order and name the unresolved relations. This is a qualitative comparison procedure, not a validated physical separation or calibrated chronology."
  }
}
