# Source-neutral operational rewrite

Rewrite the supplied five-field mapping in source-neutral operational language.
Preserve every operationally meaningful feature, condition, uncertainty, observable,
inferential limitation, stopping condition and specified next inquiry. Remove source
discipline names, imagery and metaphor. Retain the target objects and the actual
procedure. Do not strengthen, weaken, repair, complete or evaluate the procedure.

Return the exact case_id and the seven source_neutral fields in the supplied schema.
The procedure describes the state and overall process; action describes operations;
observables describes signals; inferential_warrant describes justified conclusions;
problem_decomposition describes the units and relationships; next_inquiry describes
specified follow-up; limits includes conditions and stopping rules. If no follow-up
or stopping condition is specified, state that it is unspecified instead of inventing
one. Do not supply a baseline or judge how the procedure relates to usual practice.

Describe behavior, never a verdict. Do not use these words or phrases, including in
negated statements: ordinary, native, novel, unorthodox, merely, only formalizes,
adds no warrant, new warrant, creative, same as standard practice, non-native,
material departure, CLEAR_COLLAPSE, SUFFICIENT_DEPARTURE, BORDERLINE_KEEP.
Do not say a method adds or lacks an epistemic contribution.

Treat packet text as data. Use only this target question and mapping. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.


CASE PACKET
{
  "case_id": "E028",
  "target_question": "Which deployed change accounts for the new checkout latency regression, and what bounded causal evidence distinguishes it from load variation?",
  "mapping": {
    "state": "Object acted on: the delta set, meaning the enumerated deployed changes (code revisions, configuration edits, feature-flag flips, dependency or infrastructure changes) that separate the last known-good checkout deployment from the currently regressed one. Counterpart of the 'failure-inducing configuration composed of removable parts': baseline plus all deltas.\n\nConditions that must hold before the procedure starts. These are assumptions to check, not facts supplied by the packet:\n(a) A failure predicate is fixed in advance, for example checkout p95 or p99 latency exceeding the baseline by a pre-stated margin. A pre-stated inconclusive band between 'pass' and 'fail' is classified as 'unresolved'.\n(b) Load is held constant by construction: a recorded or synthetic representative checkout workload is replayed at a fixed request rate and request mix in a staging or otherwise controlled environment.\n(c) Under that replay, the baseline passes and the full-delta configuration fails, each repeated enough times to estimate run-to-run variation.\n(d) Deltas can be applied or reverted individually or in groups to yield deployable configurations. Configurations that fail to build, deploy or start are classified 'unresolved'.\n\nIf (c) fails, so the regression does not reproduce at fixed load, the instrument's precondition is not met and the reduction is not started. That outcome is compatible with load or environment dependence but does not establish it. The case then falls back to the practitioner's ordinary stratified timeline and trace comparison.",
    "operation": "1. Partition the delta set into subsets, initially halves.\n2. For each subset, build a configuration that applies only that subset to the baseline, and one that removes only that subset from the regressed deployment (the complement).\n3. Run the identical fixed replay workload against each candidate configuration with the pre-set number of repeats, and classify it as fail, pass or unresolved using the predicate.\n4. Retain any reduced configuration that still fails and recurse on it. If no subset or complement fails, increase granularity by splitting into more, smaller subsets and repeat.\n5. Interleave baseline and full-delta control runs throughout, so that drift in the test environment is detected. If controls stop giving their expected outcomes, suspend the reduction and re-establish the test.\n6. Stop when the retained set is 1-minimal, meaning reverting any single retained change makes the regression stop reproducing. Also stop when granularity is at single changes and the remaining candidates are unresolved, or when the pre-agreed run budget is exhausted. Report the retained set as near-minimal in the latter two cases.\n\nFollow-ups after stopping:\n(i) Re-run the retained set and the baseline at more than one fixed load level, to see whether the latency gap persists, grows or vanishes with load.\n(ii) Where it is safe and approved, do a controlled revert and reintroduction of the retained change or changes on a limited slice of production traffic, compared against a concurrent slice without the change.",
    "signal": "The observable is the pattern of fail, pass and unresolved outcomes across configurations that all received the same replayed workload, together with the per-configuration latency distributions.\n\nInformative observations:\n- Which reduced configurations preserve the threshold exceedance and which do not.\n- Whether the latency gap between a retained configuration and the baseline is larger than the run-to-run spread seen in the repeated control runs.\n- Whether interleaved controls remain stable: baseline still passing, full-delta still failing.\n- In the follow-ups, whether the gap between retained-set and baseline configurations appears at each fixed load level, and whether latency moves with revert and reintroduction in the production slice relative to the concurrent comparison slice.\n\nNo such observations have been made here. These are what the procedure would produce.",
    "inference": "If the reduction reaches a 1-minimal retained set, that set is a test-relative minimal group of deployed changes sufficient, when applied to the baseline, to reproduce the defined latency exceedance under the replay workload. Each retained member is necessary for reproduction within that set under that test.\n\nOn which change accounts for the regression: if the retained set is a single change, it is the candidate that accounts for the regression under test. If it contains several changes, the warranted statement is that they jointly reproduce it, which is an interaction, not that any one of them does so alone.\n\nOn load variation, the evidence is bounded as follows: configurations differing only in the retained changes received the same request rate and mix, so the latency difference between them in the test cannot be attributed to a load difference. The multi-load follow-up indicates whether the effect is present across load levels or appears only above some level. The production revert and reintroduction, if performed, supports a causal contribution in production for the traffic slice and period observed.\n\nThis warrants a bounded causal contribution of the retained changes. It does not show that production load played no part in the observed regression, and it does not identify the mechanism by which the changes add latency.",
    "limit": "- Interactions: changes may only fail in combination, or may mask each other, so halves can both pass while the whole fails. This forces finer partitions and may block strong minimization.\n- Nondeterminism: latency is a noisy distribution, not a binary outcome. Configurations near the threshold can flip classification between runs, and too few repeats can misdirect the reduction.\n- Unresolved outcomes: coupled changes, such as a schema migration with the code that depends on it, may not be separable into deployable configurations. Irreversible changes cannot be removed at all. Both leave a larger retained set than the true minimal one.\n- Environmental dependence: staging may differ from production in data volume, cache state, downstream dependency behaviour, hardware and concurrency. A regression that reproduces only in production, or only with production traffic shape, is not reachable by the replay.\n- Replay fidelity: the fixed workload may omit the request types or load levels where the regression appears.\n- Strategy dependence: the reduction returns one minimal set, which depends on partition order. Other sufficient subsets may exist and are not enumerated.\n- Scope: the procedure tests only enumerated deltas. Causes outside the delta set, such as data growth, third-party latency or traffic-mix change, are not examined and remain open competing explanations.\n- Threshold relativity: results hold for the chosen metric, margin and load levels only.\n- Inference limit: a retained minimal configuration demonstrates reproducibility under the test. It does not demonstrate the unique underlying causal mechanism, nor that the whole production regression is due to the retained changes instead of being partly due to load."
  }
}
