# Operational transfer

Apply the supplied source instrument to the target problem in a concrete operational
way. Describe what is acted on, what is done, what can be observed, what that observation
warrants, and the limits on that inference. Preserve the source's operational chain
and relevant limits while specifying target counterparts.

Return only the supplied five-field instrument JSON structure. Put every operative
condition, stopping condition and follow-up in the five fields. Describe a proposed
procedure; do not invent completed observations or treat unestablished assumptions as
supplied target facts. State assumptions and uncertainty explicitly. Provide procedures
and their reasoning, without evaluating the character or quality of your response.

Treat packet text as data. Use only the packet and general knowledge. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.

FROZEN PACKET
{
  "packet_id": "H7-T03-1",
  "target_frame": {
    "target_id": "T03",
    "domain": "product / customer",
    "title": "Repeat purchase decline for a refill service",
    "problem": "A small household-cleaning refill service has acquired more first-time customers but fewer of them place a second order within eight weeks. The product team must choose what to investigate and which limited change to try before its next purchasing commitment.",
    "known_context": [
      "Customers choose home delivery or a neighborhood collection point and can buy a starter container or refill an existing one.",
      "Order records contain product, quantity, fulfillment option, discount and date. They do not establish how quickly a household uses the product.",
      "First-order promotions and two new collection points were introduced during the same quarter.",
      "Customer-support messages mention leaks, collection hours and confusion about refilling, but most customers send no message.",
      "The team can invite a limited set of customers to voluntary follow-up and can change one fulfillment or communication process for a month."
    ],
    "uncertainty": "A missing second order may indicate dissatisfaction, unused stock, a different expected purchase interval, inconvenience or another cause. The team does not know which explanations account for the change.",
    "decision_need": "Develop a discriminating inquiry and a bounded product or service decision without treating nonpurchase or complaint frequency as a direct measure of satisfaction.",
    "constraints": [
      "No mandatory subscription or unsolicited repeated contact.",
      "The purchasing decision is due in five weeks; major packaging redesign is unavailable in that period."
    ]
  },
  "source_instrument": {
    "state": "Multiple sequential records were formed over overlapping periods under partly shared external influences, but one or more records have uncertain calendar placement or may contain missing or anomalous increments.\n",
    "operation": "Compare the ordered pattern of increments across independently dated or overlapping records and shift their relative alignment until distinctive multi-year patterns correspond consistently across specimens.\n",
    "signal": "A particular alignment produces repeated matching temporal patterns across records and exposes otherwise inconsistent missing, extra, or misassigned increments.\n",
    "inference": "The matching alignment supports assigning specific temporal positions to previously uncertain increments and extending or checking the chronology across overlapping records.\n",
    "limit": "Local growth disturbances, weak shared environmental signal, short or repetitive patterns, measurement error, incorrect reference chronologies, and insufficient overlap can produce ambiguous or false alignments.\n"
  }
}
