# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Analysis of Competing Hypotheses",
    "practice": "Intelligence analysis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "Several plausible explanations can account for an uncertain situation, and available evidence may fit more than one of them.\n",
      "operation": "State the competing explanations explicitly, evaluate each item of evidence against all of them, emphasize evidence that is inconsistent with particular explanations, and test the sensitivity of the resulting comparison to uncertain evidence or assumptions.\n",
      "signal": "The evidence forms a comparative pattern of consistency and inconsistency across the competing explanations, with some items discriminating among them more strongly than others.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations with greater important inconsistency can be weakened or eliminated, leaving a smaller set of alternatives that better survives the observed evidence.\n",
      "limit": "Missing hypotheses, dependent or unreliable evidence, subjective consistency judgments, poor assessment of diagnosticity, and shared assumptions can make the comparison misleading. Surviving contradiction is not proof that the remaining explanation is true.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "investigative reporting",
    "question": "What can be established about whether the procurement award was steered toward a preferred bidder?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "The inquiry has two evidential panels: A concerns recorded-score manipulation; B concerns bidder-specific specification tailoring. The focal and comparison awards used the same tender-document template. Each panel contains authenticated, contemporaneous material for its assigned award, not a mixture of awards.\nPanel A is assigned to a completed comparison award from the same agency.\nPanel B is assigned to a completed comparison award from the same agency.",
    "operation": "For each panel, list the competing explanations before scoring evidence. Construct an evidence-by-hypothesis inconsistency matrix; weight documentary independence and diagnosticity rather than counting supporting items. Have a second analyst rerate the matrix and repeat after removal of each disputed item. Keep the scoring-manipulation and specification-tailoring questions separate.\nIn the focal-award account, de-prioritize the recorded-score alteration allegation only if the panel-A inference applies to that award.\nIn the focal-award account, distinguish the examined requirement from other unexamined tailoring allegations only if the panel-B inference applies to that award.",
    "signal": "In panel A, independently retained evaluation sheets agree with the announced scoring, and the stable matrix pattern conflicts with post-evaluation alteration of recorded scores. In panel B, dated drafting records show a common requirement carried over before bidder identities were available; the stable matrix pattern conflicts with bidder-specific authorship of that requirement. The patterns persist under the stated rerating and sensitivity checks.",
    "inference": "For a completed comparison award from the same agency, panel A weakens post-evaluation alteration of the recorded scores as an explanation of that award.\nFor a completed comparison award from the same agency, panel B weakens bidder-specific authorship of the examined requirement as an explanation of that award.\nUse of the same tender-document template makes the panel-A and B evidential conclusions for the comparison award applicable to the focal award.",
    "limit": "These are bounded evidential comparisons, not proof of honest intent or absence of steering by other means. Hypotheses and evidence quality constrain the matrix. Template identity is the only stated cross-award connection; no event, author, bidder, or outcome identity is stipulated."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-3d58e5e6c8d4",
    "source_field": "mapping.signal",
    "exact_parent_text": "In panel B, dated drafting records show a common requirement carried over before bidder identities were available; the stable matrix pattern conflicts with bidder-specific authorship of that requirement.",
    "exact_claim_span": "the stable matrix pattern conflicts with bidder-specific authorship of that requirement"
  }
}
