# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Differential diagnosis",
    "practice": "Clinical diagnosis",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A set of observations can plausibly be explained by more than one underlying mechanism or condition.\n",
      "operation": "Generate multiple candidate explanations, gather or inspect evidence that bears differently on them, and repeatedly revise their relative plausibility as evidence accumulates.\n",
      "signal": "New observations create a pattern of support, contradiction, or non-discrimination across the competing explanations.\n",
      "inference": "Explanations can be reprioritized, eliminated, or retained, narrowing the plausible set without requiring an early commitment to a single cause.\n",
      "limit": "The result is constrained by which hypotheses were generated, the quality and independence of the evidence, test sensitivity and specificity, and susceptibility to anchoring, premature closure, base-rate neglect, or confirmation bias.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "organizational handoff delays",
    "question": "Where do approval handoffs accumulate delay, and which bounded changes could reduce it?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "The inquiry has two diagnostic panels: A addresses intake delay; B addresses approval-stage delay. The focal and comparison processes use the same approval-case form. Each panel contains observations from its assigned process and a maintained list of rival explanations rather than a preselected single cause.\nPanel A is assigned to the approval process under investigation.\nPanel B is assigned to a comparison approval process in another unit.",
    "operation": "For each panel, list plausible mechanisms, specify which observations would bear differently on them, inspect those observations and revise the relative plausibilities. Check the supplied observation definitions, independence and test limitations. Retain alternatives that the evidence does not discriminate.\nPrioritize inquiry into intake release scheduling in the focal process only if the panel-A differential inference applies there.\nPrioritize inquiry into missing-field rework in the focal process only if the panel-B differential inference applies there.",
    "signal": "In panel A, delay clusters at fixed intake release times while independently logged available capacity remains idle between releases; this pattern fits scheduled release better than continuously exhausted capacity. In panel B, the same cases repeatedly return for documented missing fields while unrelated complete cases advance; this pattern fits case rework better than a uniform approval-stage queue. The observation definitions and reliability checks are satisfied.",
    "inference": "For the approval process under investigation, panel A supports prioritizing scheduled intake release over continuously exhausted capacity within the supplied differential.\nFor a comparison approval process in another unit, panel B supports prioritizing missing-field rework over a uniform approval-stage queue within the supplied differential.\nUse of the same approval-case form makes the panel-B differential conclusion for the comparison process applicable to the focal process.",
    "limit": "The supplied comparisons warrant relative priorities, not exclusion of all unlisted or co-occurring causes. Evidence quality and hypothesis coverage still bound the differential. Form identity is the only stated cross-process connection; staffing, scheduling and rework mechanisms are not stipulated equal."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-63070108b268",
    "source_field": "mapping.signal",
    "exact_parent_text": "In panel B, the same cases repeatedly return for documented missing fields while unrelated complete cases advance; this pattern fits case rework better than a uniform approval-stage queue.",
    "exact_claim_span": "this pattern fits case rework better than a uniform approval-stage queue"
  }
}
