# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Delta debugging",
    "practice": "Software debugging and testing",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A reproducible failure occurs for a configuration or input composed of multiple removable parts, and candidate reductions can be repeatedly tested.\n",
      "operation": "Partition the failure-inducing configuration, remove subsets or test their complements, and iteratively retain reductions that continue to reproduce the defined failure.\n",
      "signal": "Some reduced configurations preserve the failure while others do not, revealing which removals are compatible with continued reproduction.\n",
      "inference": "The procedure narrows the configuration to a test-relative minimal or near-minimal failure-inducing subset or difference whose retained parts are sufficient to reproduce the observed failure under the test.\n",
      "limit": "Interactions among parts, nondeterministic failures, unresolved test outcomes, environmental dependence, and the reduction strategy can prevent strong minimization. A retained minimal configuration demonstrates reproducibility under the test, not necessarily the unique underlying causal mechanism.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "production-regression diagnosis",
    "question": "Which deployed change accounts for the new checkout latency regression, and what bounded causal evidence distinguishes it from load variation?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "The inquiry has two failure-reproduction panels: A concerns request-path changes; B concerns background-path changes. The focal and comparison deployments use the same deployment-manifest template. Each panel tests configurations from its assigned deployment, with reproducible latency failure and individually removable changes.\nPanel A is assigned to a comparison checkout deployment maintained by another team.\nPanel B is assigned to a comparison checkout deployment maintained by another team.",
    "operation": "Within each panel, partition the changed configuration, test subsets and complements, and retain reductions reproducing its latency threshold failure. Use a fixed replay and matched environment, record pass/fail/unresolved outcomes, and finish by testing removal of each retained change separately. Do not rank components from a single untested reduction.\nUse the request-path subset to bound the focal deployment investigation only if the panel-A reproduction inference applies to that deployment.\nUse the background-path subset to bound the focal deployment investigation only if the panel-B reproduction inference applies to that deployment.\nPreserve a run ledger. Record the replay identifier for each trial. Save each tested subset. Record complement tests separately. Keep the removal order. Retain unresolved-outcome logs. Archive the final configurations.",
    "signal": "Panel A ends at a two-change request-path subset that reproduces its latency failure; removing either retained change makes that failure disappear. Panel B ends at a three-change background-path subset that reproduces its latency failure; removing any retained change makes that failure disappear. Repeated replays give the same outcomes without unresolved tests.",
    "inference": "For a comparison checkout deployment maintained by another team, panel A identifies a test-relative 1-minimal request-path subset sufficient to reproduce its observed latency failure under the replay.\nFor a comparison checkout deployment maintained by another team, panel B identifies a test-relative 1-minimal background-path subset sufficient to reproduce its observed latency failure under the replay.\nUse of the same deployment-manifest template makes the panel-A and B reproduction conclusions for the comparison deployment applicable to the focal deployment.",
    "limit": "The replay and environmental controls stated above are satisfied. Minimality is relative to single removals and this test, not a unique cause, globally smallest subset or automatic production remedy. Manifest-template identity is the only stated cross-deployment connection; code, component semantics and failure mechanisms are not stipulated equal."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-9a99b040080e",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "Use of the same deployment-manifest template makes the panel-A and B reproduction conclusions for the comparison deployment applicable to the focal deployment.",
    "exact_claim_span": "Use of the same deployment-manifest template makes the panel-A and B reproduction conclusions for the comparison deployment applicable to the focal deployment."
  }
}
