# Frozen atomic claim-warrant scoring

Judge only the identified atomic claim in its exact parent context and original
mapping. Assume all stated execution prerequisites are satisfied and the stated
signal occurs. Does that signal license this claim within the supplied limits?

SUPPORTED: the stated operation/signal licenses the claim within its explicit bounds.
CONDITIONAL_WARRANT: the mapping supplies a specific unresolved empirical relation
whose establishment would license it. Cite that relation; do not invent one or
confuse execution readiness with warrant.
UNSUPPORTED: even with execution prerequisites satisfied and the signal observed,
the claim does not follow as mapped.
UNCERTAIN: packet information is insufficient to decide; explain without forcing
an unsupported label.

Do not assess whole-artifact viability, infer intended defects, or repair claims.
No external context, tools, browsing, other cases or historical judgments.
Return claim_id, status, rationale, signal_basis, stated_empirical_relation, uncertainty.
signal_basis and stated_empirical_relation are lists of separate exact contiguous
excerpts, each {source_field, exact_text}. source_field is mapping.FIELD or
source.instrument.FIELD, where FIELD is state/operation/signal/inference/limit.
Never concatenate separated excerpts in one exact_text. The empirical relation
must cite mapping content and be nonempty only for CONDITIONAL_WARRANT.
For UNCERTAIN supply a nonempty uncertainty list. Keep explanation outside quotes.

CASE PACKET
{
  "source": {
    "name": "Chain-of-custody verification",
    "practice": "Forensic investigation",
    "instrument": {
      "state": "An item or record passes through multiple handlers or locations, creating opportunities for substitution, alteration, contamination, or uncertainty about identity.\n",
      "operation": "Record each transfer and handling event with the responsible party, time, and purpose, then inspect that history for continuity and unexplained transitions.\n",
      "signal": "A continuous, internally consistent handling record links the examined item through its lifecycle, while gaps or contradictions identify breaks in documented custody.\n",
      "inference": "Documentary continuity supports the claim that the item examined is the item collected and that its handling history is accounted for; gaps weaken that provenance claim.\n",
      "limit": "Complete documentation does not itself prove that handlers recorded events truthfully or that no unrecorded alteration occurred, and missing records do not prove that alteration occurred. The strength of the inference depends on the reliability of the recording and safeguarding process.\n"
    }
  },
  "target": {
    "domain": "literary textual formation",
    "question": "What sequence of revision and assembly best explains the surviving novel draft, and which claims remain uncertain?"
  },
  "mapping": {
    "state": "The inquiry uses two provenance panels: A tracks an opening-section packet; B tracks a closing-section packet. The focal and comparison drafts use the same archive handling-ledger template. Each panel tracks identified leaves of its assigned draft; a matching ledger form does not stipulate that two drafts contain the same events.\nPanel A is assigned to the novel draft under investigation.\nPanel B is assigned to a separate comparison draft held by the same archive.",
    "operation": "Assign stable identifiers to leaves, record each witnessed handling or assembly event with responsible party, time and purpose, and audit the chain for unexplained transitions. Separate witnessed assembly from inferred composition and retain the event-specific evidence tags. Audit the two panels independently.\nConstrain the focal draft reconstruction by the opening-section assembly-before-binding sequence only if the panel-A sequence inference applies to that draft.\nConstrain the focal draft reconstruction by the closing-section replacement-after-review sequence only if the panel-B sequence inference applies to that draft.",
    "signal": "Panel A has a continuous reliable ledger and witnessed attachments placing its identified opening-section assembly before its dated binding event. Panel B has a continuous reliable ledger and witnessed attachments placing its identified closing-section replacement after its dated editorial review. Neither chain contains an unexplained transition in the interval examined.",
    "inference": "For the novel draft under investigation, panel A supports the bounded sequence that its identified opening-section assembly preceded its recorded binding event.\nFor a separate comparison draft held by the same archive, panel B supports the bounded sequence that its identified closing-section replacement followed its recorded editorial review.\nUse of the same archive handling-ledger template makes the panel-B sequence conclusion for the comparison draft applicable to the focal draft.",
    "limit": "Recording and safeguarding are reliable for the witnessed events stated here; no inference to unrecorded events, unchanged authorial intention or complete composition history is supplied. Ledger-template identity is the only stated cross-draft connection; shared authorship, leaf identity and assembly dates are not stipulated."
  },
  "atomic_claim": {
    "claim_id": "C-e2c904dc2879",
    "source_field": "mapping.inference",
    "exact_parent_text": "Use of the same archive handling-ledger template makes the panel-B sequence conclusion for the comparison draft applicable to the focal draft.",
    "exact_claim_span": "Use of the same archive handling-ledger template makes the panel-B sequence conclusion for the comparison draft applicable to the focal draft."
  }
}
