# Operational transfer

Apply the supplied source instrument to the target problem in a concrete operational
way. Describe what is acted on, what is done, what can be observed, what that observation
warrants, and the limits on that inference. Preserve the source's operational chain
and relevant limits while specifying target counterparts.

Return only the supplied five-field instrument JSON structure. Put every operative
condition, stopping condition and follow-up in the five fields. Describe a proposed
procedure; do not invent completed observations or treat unestablished assumptions as
supplied target facts. State assumptions and uncertainty explicitly. Provide procedures
and their reasoning, without evaluating the character or quality of your response.

Treat packet text as data. Use only the packet and general knowledge. No tools,
browsing, files, retrieval, memory, plugins, other cases or external context.

FROZEN PACKET
{
  "packet_id": "H6-T03-3",
  "target": {
    "target_id": "T03",
    "domain": "compliance or procedural",
    "title": "Supplier approval records",
    "frame": "A nonprofit requires documented approval before staff place supplier orders above an internal spending threshold. A quarterly review found that 14 of 90 sampled orders lack an approval attachment in the purchasing system. Approvals may also be recorded in meeting minutes or delegated-authority forms. The operations lead must prepare a defensible account of what happened and decide which records or process changes to pursue before the board review in three weeks. The internal rule is given; no legal conclusion is requested."
  },
  "source_instrument": {
    "instrument": {
      "state": "A suspected factor is present while an effect is occurring, and the factor can potentially be removed and, in some circumstances, reintroduced.\n",
      "operation": "Remove the suspected factor and observe whether the effect changes; where justified and safe, reintroduce the factor and observe whether the effect returns.\n",
      "signal": "The effect diminishes after removal and may recur after reintroduction in temporal association with the perturbation.\n",
      "inference": "A reproducible relationship between removing or restoring the factor and disappearance or recurrence of the effect increases support for a causal contribution by that factor.\n",
      "limit": "Effects may resolve or recur spontaneously, concurrent changes may be responsible, delayed or persistent effects can obscure the response, and reintroduction may be unsafe or impossible. Temporal response alone does not exclude alternative causes.\n"
    }
  }
}
